hpe security fortify audit workbench software version: 17.20 user guide document release date: november 2017 software release date: november 2017 user guide legal notices warranty the only warranties for seattle spinco, inc. and its subsidiaries' (“seattle”) products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements accompanying such products and services.
nothing herein should be construed as constituting an additional warranty.
seattle shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein.
the information contained herein is subject to change without notice.
restricted rights legend confidential computer software.
except as specifically indicated, valid license from seattle required for possession, use or copying.
consistent with far 12.211 and 12.212, commercial computer software, computer software documentation, and technical data for commercial items are licensed to the u.s. government under vendor's standard commercial license.
copyright notice © copyright 2004 - 2017 entit software llc, a micro focus company trademark notices adobe™ is a trademark of adobe systems incorporated.
microsoft® and windows® are u.s. registered trademarks of microsoft corporation.
unix® is a registered trademark of the open group.
documentation updates the title page of this document contains the following identifying information: l software version number l document release date, which changes each time the document is updated l software release date, which indicates the release date of this version of the software to check for recent updates or to verify that you are using the most recent edition of a document, go to: https://community.saas.hpe.com/t5/fortify-product-documentation/ct-p/fortify-product-documentation you will receive updated or new editions if you subscribe to the appropriate product support service.
contact your micro focus sales representative for details.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 2 of 134 user guide contents preface contacting hpe security fortify support for more information about the documentation set change log chapter 1: introduction about fortify audit workbench audit projects and issue templates hybrid 2.0 technology integration with fortify software security center related documents all products hpe security fortify software security center hpe security fortify static code analyzer chapter 2: getting started about upgrades upgrading manually configuring automatic upgrades renewing expired licenses about starting audit workbench starting audit workbench on windows systems starting audit workbench on non-windows systems about fortify software security content configuring security content updates updating security content importing custom security content logging in to fortify software security center chapter 3: scanning source code scanning java projects quick scan mode scanning large and complex projects scanning visual studio solutions and projects 8 8 8 8 9 10 10 10 10 11 11 11 12 13 14 14 14 15 15 16 16 16 16 17 18 19 19 20 20 21 22 27 hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 3 of 134 user guide re-scanning projects chapter 4: scan results about viewing scan results issues view filter sets specifying the default filter set folders (tabs) group by list specifying the default issue grouping sorting issues search box project summary view summary tab certification tab runtime analysis tab build information tab analysis information tab viewing summary graph information source code tab about displayed source code analysis evidence view issue auditing view summary tab details tab webinspect agent details tab recommendations tab history tab diagram tab filters tab warnings tab functions view customizing the issues view working with issues filtering issues with audit guide grouping issues creating a custom group by option using smart view selectively displaying issues assigned to you about suppressed, removed, and hidden issues creating attribute summary tables for multiple issues searching for issues search modifiers search query examples performing simple searches performing advanced searches 29 31 31 31 32 33 33 34 34 35 35 36 36 36 36 37 37 37 40 41 41 43 43 44 45 45 45 45 46 47 48 48 50 50 52 54 55 57 57 58 60 61 66 66 67 hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 4 of 134 user guide about issue templates configuring custom filter sets and filters creating a new filter set creating a filter from the issues view creating a filter from the issue auditing view copying a filter from one filter set to another setting the default filter set managing folders creating a folder adding a folder to a filter set renaming a folder removing a folder configuring custom tags for auditing adding a custom tag deleting a custom tag committing custom tags to fortify software security center synchronizing custom tags with fortify software security center issue template sharing exporting an issue template importing an issue template synchronizing filter sets and folders committing filter sets and folders advanced configuration integrating with a bug tracker application public apis penetration test schema chapter 5: auditing analysis results working with audit projects opening an audit project opening audit projects without the default filter set performing a collaborative audit refreshing permissions from fortify software security center merging audit data merging audit data using the command-line utility additional metadata uploading audit results to fortify software security center evaluating issues performing quick audits performing quick audits for custom tags adding screen captures to issues viewing images creating issues for undetected vulnerabilities suppressing issues submitting an issue as a bug 68 69 69 70 70 72 72 72 73 74 74 75 75 76 78 79 79 80 80 80 81 81 82 82 82 82 83 83 83 83 84 85 85 86 86 86 87 88 88 89 89 89 90 91 hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 5 of 134 user guide correlation justification using correlation justification third-party penetration results viewing penetration test results chapter 6: audit workbench reports birt reports generating birt reports legacy reports and templates opening legacy report templates generating legacy reports legacy report templates selecting report sections editing report subsections editing text subsections editing results list subsections editing charts subsections saving legacy report templates saving changes to report templates report template xml files adding report sections adding text subsections adding results list subsections adding charts subsections chapter 7: using the functions view opening the functions view sorting and viewing functions locating functions in source code synchronizing the functions view with the analysis evidence view locating classes in source code determining which rules matched a function writing rules for functions creating custom cleanse rules chapter 8: troubleshooting creating archive logs for hpe security fortify technical support using the debugging option addressing the org.eclipse.swt.swterror error out of memory errors allocating more memory for audit workbench 91 92 95 96 97 97 98 100 101 101 102 103 103 103 105 105 106 106 106 106 107 108 108 110 111 112 112 112 113 113 113 114 115 115 115 116 116 117 hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 6 of 134 user guide allocating more memory for fortify static code analyzer specifying the amount of memory used by external processes saving a project that exceeds the maximum removed issues limit resetting the default views appendix a: sample files basic samples advanced samples appendix b: static analysis results prioritization about results prioritization quantifying risk estimating impact and likelihood with input from rules and analysis appendix c: legacy report components fortify security report fortify developer workbook report owasp top ten reports fortify scan summary report send documentation feedback 117 117 118 118 119 119 120 123 123 124 125 128 128 131 132 132 134 hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 7 of 134 user guide preface preface contacting hpe security fortify support if you have questions or comments about using this product, contact hpe security fortify technical support using one of the following options.
to manage your support cases, acquire licenses, and manage your account https://support.fortify.com to email support fortifytechsupport@hpe.com to call support 1.844.260.7219 for more information for more information about hpe security software products: http://www.hpe.com/software/fortify about the documentation set the hpe security fortify software documentation set contains installation, user, and deployment guides for all hpe security fortify software products and components.
in addition, you will find technical notes and release notes that describe new features, known issues, and last-minute updates.
you can access the latest versions of these documents from the following fortify product documentation website: https://community.saas.hpe.com/t5/fortify-product-documentation/ct-p/fortify-product- documentation you will need to register for an account.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 8 of 134 user guide change log change log the following table lists changes made to this document.
revisions to this document are published only if the changes made affect product functionality.
software release / document version change 17.20 17.10 16.20 added: l "sorting issues" on page 35 - new options for sorting issues in issues l "using smart view" on page 55 - new feature that provides a visual representation of the dataflow issues in your code updated: l "source code tab" on page 40 - added descriptions of the commands available in this tab l "grouping issues" on page 52 - expanded the section to include all grouping option descriptions l "search modifiers" on page 61 - expanded the section to include additional search modifier descriptions l "performing a collaborative audit" on page 84 - added description of the new search capability added: l "logging in to fortify software security center" on page 19 - added information about connecting to fortify software security center with single sign-on credentials.
l "specifying the default issue grouping" on page 34 - new option to specify a default group by setting updated: l "details tab" on page 44 - now includes remediation effort updated: l "updating security content" on page 18 - new way to view external mappings l "configuring custom tags for auditing" on page 75 and "evaluating issues" on page 87 - new types of custom tags l "summary tab" on page 43 and "evaluating issues" on page 87 - new audit assistant tags hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 9 of 134 chapter 1: introduction this section contains the following topics: about fortify audit workbench integration with fortify software security center related documents 10 11 11 about fortify audit workbench fortify audit workbench (audit workbench) complements fortify static code analyzer with a graphical user interface you can use to scan software projects and to organize, investigate, and prioritize the analysis results so that your team can fix security issues quickly and effectively.
from audit workbench, you can view and audit fpr files from fortify software security center, fortify runtime application protection, and fortify scanning plugins for ides.
audit workbench issue templates help you sort the results of large scans in a way that works for your business and workflows.
audit projects and issue templates after you initiate a source code scan from audit workbench, fortify static code analyzer scans and analyzes the code to produce comprehensive results.
audit workbench organizes these results into an audit project.
in fortify software security center, an application is a codebase that serves as a container for one or more application versions.
a fortify software security center application version is an instance of the codebase that will eventually be deployed.
an audit workbench audit project is comparable to a fortify software security center application version in that it represents a snapshot of the codebase.
issue templates determine how audit workbench (and fortify software security center) configures and prioritizes the vulnerabilities (issues) uncovered in source code.
audit workbench comes with a single basic issue template, which you can use as is, or modify to suit your project needs.
you can also import an issue template from fortify software security center, or create a new issue template from audit workbench.
hybrid 2.0 technology the audit workbench hybrid 2.0 technology connects penetration test results directly to source code analysis results to reveal hidden vulnerability relationships and expose their root causes within the source code.
this enables your security and development teams to more accurately identify and prioritize vulnerabilities, and more productively investigate and remediate security issues in the source code.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 10 of 134 user guide chapter 1: introduction integration with fortify software security center fortify software security center provides a web portal that developers, managers, and security teams can use to share, collaborate, and track remediation of the potential vulnerabilities fortify static code analyzer scans uncover.
if you connect audit workbench to your fortify software security center instance, you can upload and merge your scan and audit results and share them with your team.
this enables you to monitor trends and indicators across multiple application versions.
integration with fortify software security center enables you to: l upload and download fpr files l perform collaborative audits l manage the security content, which consists of fortify secure coding rulepacks, custom rulepacks, and external metadata applied during fortify static code analyzer scans l check for and install available upgrades of fortify static code analyzer and associated applications (including audit workbench) l download issue templates l upload new and modified issue templates related documents this topic describes documents that provide information about hpe security fortify audit workbench.
note: the protect724 site location is https://www.protect724.hpe.com/community/fortify/fortify- product-documentation.
all products the following documents provide general information for all products.
unless otherwise noted, these documents are available on the protect724 site.
document / file name description about fortify product documentation this paper provides information about how to access fortify product documentation.
about_fortify_doc_<version>.pdf note: this document is included only with product download.
hpe security fortify software system requirements hpe_sys_reqs_<version>.pdf this document provides the details about the environments and products supported for this version of hpe security fortify software.
hpe security fortify software release this document provides an overview of the changes made hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 11 of 134 user guide chapter 1: introduction document / file name description notes hpe_fortifysw_rn_<version>.txt to hpe security fortify software for this release and important information not included elsewhere in the product documentation.
what’s new in hpe security fortify software <version>
this document describes the new features in hpe security fortify software products.
hpe_whats_new_<version>.pdf hpe security fortify open source and third-party license agreements hpe_opensrc_<version>.pdf this document provides open source and third-party software license agreements for software components used in hpe security fortify software.
hpe security fortify software security center the following documents provide information about fortify software security center.
unless otherwise noted, these documents are available on the protect724 site.
document / file name description hpe security fortify software security center user guide hpe_ssc_guide_<version>.pdf hpe_ssc_help_<version> hpe security fortify software security center process designer guide: legacy user interface hpe_ssc_proc_design_guide_
legacy_<version>.pdf hpe_ssc_proc_design_help_
<version>
this document provides fortify software security center users with detailed information about how to deploy and use fortify software security center.
it provides all of the information you need to acquire, install, configure, and use fortify software security center.
it is intended for use by system and instance administrators, database administrators (dbas), enterprise security leads, development team managers, and developers.
fortify software security center provides security team leads with a high-level overview of the history and current status of a project.
this document provides information about how to start the process designer, configure its connection to your fortify software security center instance, and then use it to work with fortify software security center process templates, which are used only in the fortify software security center legacy (version 4.30) user interface.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 12 of 134 user guide chapter 1: introduction hpe security fortify static code analyzer the following documents provide information about fortify static code analyzer.
unless otherwise noted, these documents are available on the protect724 site.
document / file name description hpe security fortify static code analyzer installation guide this document contains installation instructions for fortify static code analyzer and applications.
hpe_sca_install_<version>.pdf hpe_sca_install_help_<version> hpe security fortify static code analyzer user guide hpe_sca_guide_<version>.pdf hpe_sca_help_<version> hpe security fortify static code analyzer performance guide hpe_sca_perf_guide_<version>.pdf pdf only; no help file hpe security fortify static code analyzer custom rules guide hpe_sca_cust_rules_guide_ <version>.zip pdf only; no help file this document describes how to use fortify static code analyzer to scan code on many of the major programming platforms.
it is intended for people responsible for security audits and secure coding.
this document provides guidelines for selecting hardware to scan different types of codebases and offers tips for optimizing memory usage and performance.
this document provides the information that you need to create custom rules for fortify static code analyzer.
this guide includes examples that apply rule-writing concepts to real-world security issues.
note: this document is included only with the product download.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 13 of 134 chapter 2: getting started the following topics provide an overview of fortify audit workbench, instructions on how to start the tool, and instructions on how to upgrade the static code analyzer and applications (fortify static code analyzer, audit workbench, and any plugins or packages you have installed) as new versions of the products become available.
this section contains the following topics: about upgrades renewing expired licenses about starting audit workbench about fortify software security content logging in to fortify software security center 14 15 16 16 19 about upgrades you can check on the availability of new fortify sca and applications (including audit workbench) versions from the audit workbench user interface.
if a version newer than the one you have installed is available from your fortify software security center server, you can download it and upgrade your instance.
you can also configure audit workbench to check for, download, and install new versions automatically at startup.
whether you upgrade your fortify sca and applications manually or automatically, audit workbench preserves your data.
to enable upgrades from audit workbench, a fortify software security center administrator must first set up the automatic upgrade capability on the fortify software security center server.
for instructions on how to this, see hpe security fortify software security center user guide.
upgrading manually you can check for newer fortify sca and applications versions manually, either from the audit workbench help menu, or from the options dialog box.
to check for, and (potentially) install, a newer fortify sca and applications version, do one of the following: l select help > check for upgrades.
alternatively, 1. select options > options.
the options dialog box opens to the server configuration settings.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 14 of 134 user guide chapter 2: getting started 2.
under audit workbench upgrade configuration on the right, do the following: in the server url box, type the url for your fortify software security center server.
a. b. click check now.
the audit workbench polls the upgrade server for information about the fortify sca and applications versions available for the platform on which it is running.
if a newer version is available, audit workbench prompts you to indicate whether you want to proceed to download and install it.
important: if you have an fortify plugin for eclipse installed, after you upgrade your fortify sca and applications from audit workbench, you must uninstall, and then reinstall the eclipse plugin.
configuring automatic upgrades to configure upgrade checks at audit workbench startup: 1. from audit workbench, select options > options.
2. 3.
under audit workbench upgrade configuration on the right, do the following: in the left pane, leave server configuration selected.
a. in the server url box, type the url for the installers folder on your fortify software security center server.
b. select the check for upgrades at startup check box.
4. click ok.
each time you start audit workbench, it checks the server to determine if a newer fortify sca and applications version is available and then, if a newer version is available, downloads and installs it.
important: if you have an fortify plugin for eclipse installed, after you upgrade your fortify sca and applications from audit workbench, you must uninstall, and then reinstall the eclipse plugin.
renewing expired licenses the license for fortify static code analyzer and its tools, including audit workbench, expires annually.
you can get an updated license from the fortify customer portal.
to update an expired license: 1. log on to the fortify customer portal (https://support.fortify.com).
if you do not have an account, contact hpe security fortify technical support (fortifytechsupport@hpe.com).
if you encounter a problem logging into your account, send an email to hpe security fortify technical support (fortifytechsupport@hpe.com) with “portal access” as the subject.
2. after you log onto the fortify customer portal, at the top of the page, click the my licenses tab.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 15 of 134 user guide chapter 2: getting started the download licenses page lists all licenses with current maintenance agreements.
if you do not see your license, email hpe security fortify technical support (fortifytechsupport@hpe.com) with “maintenance renewal verification” as the subject.
if your maintenance agreement was recently renewed, the download licenses page might not yet reflect this.
3. click the link for the license you want to use.
the license is downloaded automatically to your machine.
4. put the license file in the folder where fortify static code analyzer is installed ( <sca_install_ dir>).
5. start audit workbench, and check to make sure that you can log on.
about starting audit workbench you can start audit workbench from the start menu on a windows system.
you can start it from the command line on any supported operating system.
starting audit workbench on windows systems to start audit workbench on a windows system, do one of the following: l select start >
all programs > hpe security fortify sca and applications <version> > audit workbench where <version> is the version you have installed.
alternatively, 1. open a command window, and then change to the <sca_install_dir>\bin directory.
2. at the prompt, type auditworkbench.cmd.
starting audit workbench on non-windows systems to start audit workbench on a non-windows system: 1. open a command prompt window, and then change to the <sca_install_dir>/bin directory.
2. at the prompt, type auditworkbench.
about fortify software security content audit workbench uses a knowledge base of rules to enforce secure coding standards applicable to the codebase for static analysis.
fortify software security content (security content) consists of secure coding rulepacks and external metadata: l secure coding rulepacks describe general secure coding idioms for popular languages and public apis.
l external metadata include mappings from the fortify categories to alternative categories (such as cwe, owasp top 10, and pci dss).
you can modify the existing mapping in the external metadata hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 16 of 134 user guide chapter 2: getting started document (externalmetadata.xml) or create your own files to map fortify vulnerabilities to different taxonomies, such as internal security standards or additional compliance obligations (recommended).
for instructions on how to create your own custom external metadata, see the hpe security fortify static code analyzer custom rules guide.
you can update your security content in english, spanish, brazilian portuguese, japanese, korean, simplified chinese, or traditional chinese.
hpe recommends that you periodically update the security content.
configuring security content updates you can specify the server information to use to update security content.
to configure security content updates: 1. select options > options.
2. in the left panel, select server configuration.
3. to update security content from your fortify software security center server: a. under security content update configuration, select the update security content from software security center check box.
b.
under software security center configuration, specify the fortify software security center server url and if necessary, the proxy server and port number.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 17 of 134 user guide chapter 2: getting started 4. to specify an update server from which to update security content, in the security content update configuration section, do the following: a. b.
in the server url box, type the url for the update server.
if required, specify the proxy server and port.
5. to update security content automatically and with a specific frequency: a. select the perform security content update automatically check box.
b.
in the security content update frequency (days) box, specify how often (type the number of days)
you want the security content automatically updated.
6. click apply, and then click ok.
updating security content you can download security content in english, spanish, brazilian portuguese, japanese, korean, simplified chinese, or traditional chinese.
issue descriptions and recommendations are available in the selected language and categories are in english.
to update your security content: 1. select options > options.
2. in the left panel, select security content management.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 18 of 134 user guide chapter 2: getting started note: scroll to the bottom of the installed fortify security content list to see the external mappings.
any custom rules and custom external mappings appear in the installed custom security content list.
in the update security content list, select the security content in the language you want.
the security content update window displays the results of the security content update.
3. 4. click ok to close the security content update window.
importing custom security content to import custom rules, do the following: in the left panel, select security content management.
1. select options > options.
2. 3. click import custom security content.
4. select the custom rules file you want to import, and then click open.
logging in to fortify software security center the first time you perform an operation that requires a connection to fortify software security center, you are prompted to log in.
to log in to fortify software security center: 1. from the login method menu, select the login method set up for you on fortify software security center.
2. depending on the selected login method, do one of the following: login method procedure username/password l type your fortify software security center user name and password.
x.509 sso a. click the browse button to the right of certificate.
b.
in the browser for certificate dialog box, locate the p12 package with the certificate, and then click open.
c. type the password if required.
kerberos sso no additional information is required.
3. click ok to connect to fortify software security center.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 19 of 134 chapter 3: scanning source code the following topics describe how to scan source code and view the scan and analysis results in the audit workbench auditing interface.
this section contains the following topics: scanning java projects quick scan mode scanning large and complex projects scanning visual studio solutions and projects re-scanning projects 20 21 22 27 29 scanning java projects the audit guide wizard combines the translation and analysis phases of the scanning process into a single step.
use this wizard to scan small java projects that have source code in a single directory.
to scan a new java project: 1. start audit workbench.
2. under start new project, click scan java project.
the browse for folder dialog box opens.
3. select the folder that contains all the source code you want to analyze, and then click ok.
note: fortify static code analyzer sets the build id to the folder name.
4. select the java version used for your project, and then click ok.
the audit guide wizard opens.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 20 of 134 user guide chapter 3: scanning source code 5.
select the settings for the types of issues you want to display in the results, and then click scan.
fortify static code analyzer analyzes the source code.
if fortify static code analyzer encounters any problems as it scans the source code, audit workbench displays a warning.
if a warning is displayed, click ok. 6.
after the scan is completed, audit workbench displays the analysis results.
note: fortify static code analyzer scans invoked from audit workbench are invoked with the server java virtual machine.
quick scan mode with quick scan mode, you can quickly scan projects for major issues.
for example, a quick scan of the webgoat sample application uncovers 284 possible issues.
by contrast, a full scan of the webgoat sample application uncovers 1,150 possible issues.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 21 of 134 user guide chapter 3: scanning source code in quick scan mode, fortify static code analyzer searches for high-confidence, high-severity issues.
quick scans are a great way to get many applications through an assessment so that you can quickly find issues and begin remediation.
although the scan is faster than a full scan, it does not provide as robust a result set.
critical and other issues that a quick scan cannot detect may exist in your application.
hpe recommends that you run full scans whenever possible.
to perform a quick scan, follow the steps described in "scanning large and complex projects" below and select the enable quick scan mode check box.
quick scan is also available when you scan visual studio solutions (see "scanning visual studio solutions and projects" on page 27).
audit workbench displays the scan results in its project summary view.
you audit quick scan results just as you audit full scan results.
scanning large and complex projects exceptionally large codebases might require some configuration to ensure a complete scan, including using fortify static code analyzer to scan the code in smaller sections.
while audit workbench enables you to edit fortify static code analyzer command options, you can handle large, complex scans more successfully directly through the command console.
in addition, if a system has memory constraints, fortify static code analyzer must compete with the fortify audit workbench for resources, which could result in slow or failed scans.
use the advanced static analysis wizard for projects that have source code in multiple directories, special translation or build requirements, or that have files that you want to exclude from the project.
note: audit workbench filters out unsupported files within the selected source code directories.
to scan a new project: 1. start audit workbench.
2. under start new project, click advanced scan.
the browse for folder dialog box opens.
3. select the root directory of the project, and then click ok.
the advanced static analysis wizard opens.
note: the following image shows the wizard options when you select a java project.
the options are different for other programming languages.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 22 of 134 user guide chapter 3: scanning source code the wizard automatically includes all supported files in the scan.
4. (optional) to add files from another directory: a. click add directory.
the browse to folder dialog box opens.
b. select the folder that contains the files you want to add to the scan, and then click ok.
the navigation panel displays the directory and audit workbench adds all supported files to the scan.
(to remove the directory, right-click the folder, and then select remove root.)
5. (optional) to exclude files or directories that contain, for example, test source code, right-click the file or directory, and then click exclude.
6. for java projects, set the following: a. select the build directories and jar files, and then click classpath directory.
note: if you do not select the classpath directory, fortify static code analyzer uses the classpath environment variable value.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 23 of 134 user guide chapter 3: scanning source code the folder turns blue and the files are added to the classpath.
7. b. from the java version list, select the java version of the project.
in the build id box, type the build id. the root directory is the default build id. 8.
to specify a different output file path than the default, in the output file box, type the path and file name for the fpr file that fortify static code analyzer is to generate.
9. to perform a quick scan, select the enable quick scan mode check box.
for information about quick scans, see "quick scan mode" on page 21.
10. click next.
the scan process includes the following phases: l during the clean phase, fortify static code analyzer removes files from previous translation of the project.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 24 of 134 user guide chapter 3: scanning source code l during the translation phase, fortify static code analyzer translates source code identified in the previous screen into an intermediate format that is associated with a build id. the build id is typically the project.
l during the scan phase, fortify static code analyzer scans source files identified during the translation phase and generates analysis results, in the fortify project results (fpr) format.
11.
(optional) to skip a scanning phase, clear the enable clean, enable translation, or enable scan check box.
for example, if the security content has changed but the project has not changed, you might want to disable both the clean and the translation phases so that fortify static code analyzer scans the project without translating it again.
12. modify the command-line options for each fortify static code analyzer scan phase as required.
13.
(optional) to specify the amount of memory fortify static code analyzer uses for scanning: a. click configure memory.
b. adjust the slider to the amount of memory required.
c. click
ok. hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 25 of 134 user guide chapter 3: scanning source code 14.
(optional) to analyze the source code using an installed custom rulepack, or to disable a rulepack, do the following: a. click configure rulepacks.
the additional options dialog box opens.
b.
in the installed fortify security content list, clear the check boxes that correspond to any rulepacks you want to disable during the scan.
note: for instructions on how to add custom security content, see "importing custom security content" on page 19.
c. click ok. hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 26 of 134 user guide chapter 3: scanning source code 15.
from the advanced static analysis wizard, click next.
16. select your scan settings, and then click scan.
fortify static code analyzer starts the scan and displays progress information throughout the process.
if fortify static code analyzer encounters any problems scanning the source code, it displays a warning.
after the scan is completed, audit workbench loads the audit project and displays the analysis results.
scanning visual studio solutions and projects if you have visual studio and the fortify package for visual studio installed on the same machine as audit workbench, you can analyze visual studio solutions and projects.
to scan a visual studio solution: hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 27 of 134 user guide chapter 3: scanning source code 1.
start audit workbench.
2. under start new project, click visual studio build integration.
3. select the folder that contains the solution you want to analyze, and then click ok.
note: fortify static code analyzer uses the selected folder name as the build id. the advanced static analysis wizard opens.
4. configure the solution settings, as follows: in the build configuration box, leave the default value debug
. a. (optional) next to the visual studio solution file box, click browse.
b. navigate to and select the file for your visual studio solution.
c. from the visual studio version list, select the visual studio version used for the solution.
d. e. (optional) in the build id box, type a different build id. f. (optional) select a different path and name for the output file.
g. to run the scan in quick scan mode, select the quick scan mode check box.
h. click next.
the advanced static analysis wizard displays details about the fortify static code analyzer analysis phases for the scan.
l during the clean phase, fortify static code analyzer removes files from previous translation of the project.
l during the translation phase, fortify static code analyzer translates source code identified in the previous screen into an intermediate format that is associated with a build id. the build id is typically the project.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 28 of 134 user guide chapter 3: scanning source code l during the scan phase, fortify static code analyzer scans source files identified during the translation phase and generates analysis results, in the fortify project results (fpr) format.
5. (optional) to skip a scanning phase, clear the enable clean, enable translation, or enable scan check box.
for example, if the rulepacks have changed but the project has not changed, you might want to disable the both the clean and the translation phases so that fortify static code analyzer scans the project without retranslating the source code.
6. modify the command-line options for each fortify static code analyzer phase, if necessary.
7. (optional) to specify the amount of memory fortify static code analyzer uses for scanning: a. click configure memory.
b. adjust the slider to the amount of memory required.
c. click ok. 8.
(optional) to analyze the source code using an installed custom rulepack, or to disable a rulepack, do the following: a. click configure rulepacks.
b.
in the installed fortify security content list, clear the check boxes that correspond to any rulepacks you want to disable during the scan.
note: for instructions on how to add custom security content, see "importing custom security content" on page 19.
c. click ok. 9.
from the advanced static analysis wizard, click next.
10. select your scan settings, and then click scan.
fortify static code analyzer starts the scan and displays progress information throughout the process.
if fortify static code analyzer encounters any problems scanning the source code, it displays a warning.
after the scan is completed, audit workbench loads the audit project and displays the analysis results.
re-scanning projects this section describes how to re-scan a project that was translated locally with new or updated rules.
audit workbench automatically loads the fpr project settings such as the build id and source code path, and allows you to change the command-line scanning options.
after fortify static code analyzer completes the scan, audit workbench merges the analysis results with those from the previous scan to determine which issues are new, which have been removed, and which were uncovered in both scans.
to re-scan a project: 1. open an fpr file.
2. from the audit workbench toolbar, click scan.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 29 of 134 user guide chapter 3: scanning source code note: you can only re-scan a project on the same machine where the project was originally scanned.
3. the rescan build id dialog box opens.
if the source code has changed since the most recent scan, click update project translation to retranslate the project.
note: if the fpr file that you opened was generated by a fortify static code analyzer scan that was not initiated from audit workbench, the update project translation button is unavailable.
note: if the source code has changed since the most recent scan, you must update the translation before you re-scan the code.
otherwise, a new scan cannot uncover the issues in the updated source code.
4. (optional) modify the fortify static code analyzer scan phase command-line options, as necessary.
5. (optional) to change the rulepacks used to analyze the project: a. click configure rulepacks.
b. to add and remove rulepacks, select or clear the check boxes, as necessary.
note: for instructions on how to add custom security content, see "importing custom security content" on page 19.
c. click ok.
6. click scan.
after the scan is complete, audit workbench displays the results.
compare the new results with the issues uncovered in the previous scan as follows: l to display all new issues, click the all tab (green), and then, in the group by list, select new issue.
l to display removed issues, click the all tab, and then select options > show removed issues.
l to review issues found in both the previous scan and the new scan, click the all tab, expand the issue updated group, and then, from the group by list, select new issue.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 30 of 134 chapter 4: scan results after a scan is completed, audit workbench displays the results in the auditing interface.
this section contains the following topics: about viewing scan results working with issues searching for issues about issue templates configuring custom filter sets and filters managing folders configuring custom tags for auditing issue template sharing advanced configuration 31 50 60 68 69 72 75 80 82 about viewing scan results after the scan is completed (or, after you open an existing audit project), summary results are displayed in the issues view and in the project summary view of the auditing interface.
the analysis evidence and issue auditing views are open, but do not contain any information until you select an issue from the issues view.
view for more information, see... issues (top left) "issues view" below project summary (top center) "project summary view" on page 36 source code (top center) "source code tab" on page 40 analysis evidence (bottom left) "analysis evidence view" on page 41 issue auditing (bottom center) "issue auditing view" on page 43 functions (right) "functions view" on page 48 issues view the issues view provides a way to group and select the issues to audit.
the view contains the filter set list, folders (tabs), the group by list, the my issues check box, and a search box.
note: in this view, you can right-click an issue and select issue attributes to see all the attributes associated with the issue such as analysis tag, analyzer that detected the issue, severity, and more.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 31 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results filter sets audit workbench applies filters to sort and display the issues that static code analyzer uncovers.
audit workbench organizes filters into distinct filter sets.
the selected filter set controls which issues are listed in the issues view.
the filter set determines the number and types of containers (folders) that are shown and how and where to display issues.
the default filter sets sort the issues by severity into the critical, high, medium, low, and all folders.
because filter sets are saved to audit project files, each audit project can have unique filter sets.
audit workbench provides the following filter sets for new projects: l quick view: this is the default initial filter set for new projects.
the quick view filter set provides a view only of issues in the critical folder (these have a potentially high impact and a high likelihood of occurring) and the high folder (these have a potentially high impact and a low likelihood of occurring).
the quick view filter set provides a useful first look at results that enables you to quickly address the most pressing issues.
l security auditor view: this is the default filter set for projects scanned in earlier product versions.
this view reveals a broad set of security issues to be audited.
the security auditor view filter contains no visibility filters, so all issues are shown.
for instructions on how to create custom filter sets, see "configuring custom filter sets and filters" on page 69.
if you open an fpr file that contains no custom filtertemplate.xml file or if you open an fvdl file or a webinspect.xml file, the audit project opens with the quick view filter set selected.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 32 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results specifying the default filter set you can change the initial filter set to use for new or opened projects.
you can also disable the default filter set so that the filter set last enabled in the issue template is used to display scan results for new projects.
to select the filter set for new or opened projects: 1. select options > options.
2. 3.
under audit project load mode, leave the default filter set check box selected.
in the left panel, select audit configuration, and then click the configuration tab on the right.
if you clear the check box, the default filter is loaded.
for newly-opened projects, the default filter for fprs that have no embedded template or the default filter from the embedded template is the security auditor view filter set.
4. from the list to the right of the default filter set check box, select the filter set to use to display scan results for new projects.
5. click ok. folders (tabs) the color-coded critical, high, medium, low, and all tabs on the issues view are called folders.
you can customize the folders and their settings.
the number of folders, names, colors, and the issue list can vary between filter sets and projects.
note: in audit workbench, the term folder does not refer to the folder icons in the issues list.
the filter set you select from the filter set list determines which folders are visible in the issues view.
the following folders are visible while the security auditor view filter set is selected: l the critical folder contains issues that have a high impact and a high likelihood of occurring.
issues at this risk level are easy to discover and to exploit, and represent the highest security risk to a program.
remediate critical issues immediately.
example: sql injection l the high folder contains issues that have a high impact and a low likelihood of occurring.
high-priority issues are often difficult to discover and exploit, but can result in much asset damage.
they represent a significant security risk to a program.
remediate these issues with the next patch release.
example: password management: hardcoded password l the medium folder contains issues that a have low impact and a high likelihood of exploitation.
medium-priority issues are easy to discover and exploit, but often result in little asset damage.
these issues represent a moderate security risk to a program.
remediate these issues as time permits.
example: asp.net misconfiguration: missing error handling hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 33 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results l the low folder contains issues that have a low impact and a low likelihood of exploitation.
remediate these issues as time permits.
low-priority issues can be difficult to discover and to exploit and typically result in little asset damage.
these issues represent a minor security risk to the program.
example: poor error handling: empty catch block l the all folder contains the issues from all of the other folders.
an issue is listed in a folder if the folder filter conditions match the issue attributes.
each filter set has a default folder, indicated by (default) next to the folder name.
if an issue does not match any of the folder filters, the issue is listed in the default folder.
you can create your own folders as you need them.
for example, you might group all hot issues for a project into a hot folder and group all warning issues for the same project into a warning folder.
for instructions on how to create your own folders, see "creating a folder" on page 73.
each folder contains a list of all of the issues with attributes that match the folder filter conditions.
one folder in each filter set is the default folder, indicated by (default) in the folder name.
note: to show or hide suppressed, hidden, and removed issues, set the user interface preferences from the options dialog box (see "customizing the issues view" on page 48).
group by list the group by list options sort the issues into sub folders.
the option you select is applied to all visible folders.
to list all issues in the folder without any grouping, select <none>.
to customize the existing groups, you can specify which attributes to sort by, add or remove the attributes to create sub-groupings, and add your own grouping options.
the group by settings apply to the application instance.
you can apply the group by option to any project opened with that instance of the application.
for more information, see "grouping issues" on page 52.
specifying the default issue grouping you can change the initial group by setting to use for new or opened projects.
to select the default group by setting: 1. select options > options.
2. 3.
under audit project load mode, select the default issue grouping check box.
in the left panel, select audit configuration, and then click the configuration tab on the right.
if you clear the check box, the default group by setting is set to category.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 34 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results 4.
from the list to the right of the default issue grouping check box, select the grouping you want to use to sort issues.
5. click ok.
sorting issues there are several different ways to sort the issues in the issues view.
select a sort option from the sort list.
the following table describes the sort options.
sort method icons description alphabetical sorts the groups and the issues within the groups in alphabetical order.
sorts the groups and the issues within the groups in reverse- alphabetical order group size sorts the groups by the number of contained issues from largest to smallest sorts the groups by the number of contained issues from smallest to largest.
last modified date sorts the groups and issues in groups by the date last modified by fortify static code analyzer or the audit/comment date from newest to oldest sorts the groups and issues in groups by the date last modified by fortify static code analyzer or the audit/comment date from oldest to newest search box the search box enables you to limit the issues displayed in the folder and to search for specific issues.
for detailed information about how to use the search box, see "searching for issues" on page 60.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 35 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results project summary view the project summary view provides detailed information about the scan.
to open this view, select > tools > project summary.
summary tab the summary tab shows high-level information about the project.
for more information, see "viewing summary graph information" on the next page.
certification tab the certification tab displays the result certification status and indicates whether the code analysis for a scan was complete.
results certification is a check to ensure that the analysis results have not been altered after fortify static code analyzer or fortify runtime application protection produced them.
results certification shows specific information about the scanned code, including: l fpr certification l certification details such as the results and rules signatures runtime analysis tab if runtime analysis data is available, the runtime analysis tab displays the following run information: l number of issues found by runtime application protection l build id l engine version hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 36 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results l dates and times the run started and ended l machine on which the scan was performed build information tab the build information tab displays the following information: l build details such as the build id, number of files scanned, source last-modified date, and the date of the scan, which might be different than the date the files were translated l executable lines of code (loc) scanned - ignore this metric.
it is no longer used.
l total lines of code (loc) scanned this metric provides the approximate number of lines that contain code constructs (comments are excluded).
the process to determine the loc varies for the different supported languages.
l list of files scanned with file sizes and timestamps l libraries referenced for the scan l java classpath used for the translation analysis information tab the analysis information tab shows the fortify static code analyzer version that performed the scan, details about the computer on which the scan was run, the user who started the scan, scan date, and the time required to scan the code.
the analysis information tab includes the following subtabs: l security content: lists information about the rulepacks used to scan the source code l properties: displays the fortify static code analyzer properties files settings l commandline arguments: displays the command-line options used to analyze the project viewing summary graph information the summary graph displayed in the project summary view provides multiple perspectives on the sets of issues, grouped by priority (critical, high, medium, and low) uncovered in a scan.
you can drill down in the graph to see detailed information about each issue set, and create various bar charts for issues based on a selected issue attribute.
the following procedure uses the webgoat sample java application to demonstrate how to access information about sets of issues graphically depicted in the summary graph.
to access details about issue sets in an audit project: 1. scan your project source code or open an existing audit project.
after the results are loaded, the project summary view displays the summary tab, which includes the summary graph.
the summary graph initially displays issues sorted into the critical, high, medium, and low folders.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 37 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results note: if you change the selection in the filter set list (issues), the summary graph changes accordingly.
2. to see a different view of the high priority issues, click the high bar.
by default, the graph displays high priority issues based on the analysis attribute (assigned analysis values).
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 38 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results note: the example here shows information for scan results that have been partially audited.
if these results were from a fresh, unaudited scan, no analysis information would be available.
the graph would just display a single bar that represents all (unaudited) high priority issues.
3. to view the high priority issues based on a different attribute, select an item from the view by list.
4. on the issues in high bar graph, select a bar for a category that contains multiple issues.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 39 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results in the example shown here, the null dereference bar is selected.
you can see that, of eight issues, three were marked as suspicious and five were marked as bad practice.
5. to synchronize the issues list with the displayed graphical view, click sync issue list with graph.
the issues list in the issues view now reflects the selections in the summary graph.
6. to return to the previous view in the summary graph, click back.
7. to return to the original summary graph view (issues based on priority), click return to folder graph.
source code tab after you open a project in audit workbench, the top center view displays the project summary tab.
after you select an issue in the issues view to the left, audit workbench adds the source code tab to the top center view.
this source code tab shows the code related to the issue selected in the issues view.
if multiple nodes represent an issue in the analysis evidence view (below the issues view), the source code tab shows the code associated with the selected node.
from the source code tab, you can use the context menu commands to: l create new issues (create new issue) for more information, see "creating issues for undetected vulnerabilities" on page 89.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 40 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results l create a custom rule (generate rule for function).
for more information, see "writing rules for functions" on page 113.
l jump to the declaration of a function, class, variable, field or an argument within source code that was translated by fortify static code analyzer (jump to declaration).
l locate the file name and line number where a function appears in the source code (find usages).
the search results are displayed in the search tab of the issue auditing view.
l refresh the code displayed in source code tab (refresh).
this might be necessary if the file was modified outside of audit workbench.
l customize the appearance in the source code tab such as fonts, colors, text edit settings, and so on (editor preferences).
about displayed source code after you open an fpr file in audit workbench, the source code tab displays source code that is stored locally.
if that source code was updated since the last scan, audit workbench displays the updated source code, even if the latest scan did not use that updated source code.
however, if that source code is updated after you open the fpr file and audit workbench has already started and searched for the source code (even if you close the fpr in audit workbench and then re- open it) audit workbench does not look for or display the updated source code.
it displays the updated source code only after you quit, and then restart audit workbench.
analysis evidence view when you select an issue, the analysis evidence view displays the relevant trace output.
this is a set of program points that show how the analyzer found the issue.
for dataflow and control flow issues, the set is presented in the order executed.
for dataflow issues, this evidence is a presentation of the path that the tainted data follows from the source function to the sink function.
for example, when you select an issue that is related to potentially tainted dataflow, the analysis evidence view shows the direction the dataflow moves in this section of the source code.
the analysis evidence view uses the icons listed in the following table to show how the dataflow moves in this section of the source code or execution order.
icon description data is assigned to a field or variable information is read from a source external to the code such as an html form or a url data is assigned to a globally scoped field or variable a comparison is made the function call receives tainted data hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 41 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results icon description the function call returns tainted data passthrough, tainted data passes from one parameter to another in a function call an alias is created for a memory location data is read from a variable data is read from a global variable tainted data is returned from a function a pointer is created a pointer is dereferenced the scope of a variable ends the execution jumps a branch is taken in the code execution a branch is not taken in the code execution generic a runtime source, sink, or validation step taint change the analysis evidence view can display inductions.
inductions provide supporting evidence for their parent nodes.
inductions consist of a text node, displayed in italics as a child of the trace node, and an induction trace, displayed as a child of the text node (a box surrounds the induction trace).
the italics and the box distinguish the induction from a standard sub trace.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 42 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results issue auditing view the issue auditing view at the bottom center of the auditing interface provides detailed information about each issue on the tabs described in the following topics.
note: if any of the tabs are not visible, select options > show view to open them.
summary tab the summary tab displays information about the selected issue and enables auditors to add comments and custom tag values.
the following table describes the tab elements.
element issue user analysis description displays the issue location, including the file name and line number.
displays the name of the user assigned to the issue if the results were uploaded to fortify software security center and a user was assigned in fortify software security center.
list of values that the auditor can use to assess the issue.
valid values for analysis are not an issue, reliability issue, bad practice, suspicious, and exploitable.
<custom_tags> displays any custom tags if defined for the audit project.
if the audit results have been submitted to audit assistant in fortify software security center, then in addition to any other custom tags, the tab displays the following tags: l aa_prediction—exploitability level that audit assistant assigned to the issue.
you cannot modify this tag value.
l aa_confidence—confidence level from audit assistant for the accuracy of its aa_prediction value.
this is a percentage, expressed in values that hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 43 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results element description range from 0.000 to 1.000.
for example, a value of 0.982 indicates a confidence level of 98.2 percent.
you cannot modify this tag value.
l aa_training—whether to include or exclude the issue from audit assistant training.
you can modify this value.
for more information about audit assistant, see the hpe security fortify software security center user guide.
suppresses the issue unsuppresses the issue (only visible if the issue is suppressed).
provides access to a supported bug tracker application.
suppress unsuppress file bug comment appends additional information about the issue to the comment field.
rule information shows information, such as the category and kingdom that describes the issue.
more information opens the details tab.
recommendations opens the recommendations tab.
show merge conflicts shows merge conflicts in the comments box that might exist after a merge of audit projects.
this check box is available only if merge conflicts exist.
details tab the details tab provides a detailed description of the selected issue and guidelines on how to resolve it.
the following table describes the tab elements.
element description abstract/custom abstract summary description of the issue, including custom abstracts that your organization defined.
explanation/custom explanation description of the conditions in which this type of issue occurs.
this includes a discussion of the vulnerability, the constructs typically associated with it, how it can be exploited, and the potential consequences of an attack.
this element also provides custom explanations that your organization defined.
instance id unique identifier for the issue.
priority metadata values legacy priority metadata values includes impact and likelihood.
includes severity and confidence.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 44 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results element description remediation effort the relative amount of effort required to fix and verify an issue.
note: for more information about metadata values and remediation effort, see "estimating impact and likelihood with input from rules and analysis" on page 125.
webinspect agent details tab the webinspect agent details tab displays the following information about runtime issues found by fortify runtime application protection.
the following table describes the tab elements.
element description request shows the path of the request, the referrer address, and the method.
stack trace shows the order of methods called during execution and line number information.
blue, clickable code links are only displayed for fortify static code analyzer-scanned code.
recommendations tab the recommendations tab displays suggestions and examples of how to secure the vulnerability or remedy the bad practice.
the following table lists the elements on the tab.
element description recommendations/custom recommendations recommendations for this type of issue, including examples, as well as custom recommendations that your organization defined.
tips/custom tips tips for this type of issue, including any custom tips that your organization defined.
references/custom references reference information, including any custom reference that your organization defined.
history tab the history tab displays a complete list of audit actions, including details such as the time and date, and the name of the user who modified the issue.
diagram tab the diagram tab displays a graphical representation of the node execution order, call depth, and expression type of the issue selected in the issues view.
this tab displays information that is relevant to the rule type.
the vertical axis represents the execution order.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 45 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results for dataflow issues, the trace starts with the first function to call the taint source, then traces the calls to the source (blue node), and ends the trace at the sink (red node).
in the diagram, the source (src) and sink nodes are also labeled.
a red x on a vertical axis indicates that the called function finished executing.
the horizontal axis shows the call depth.
a line shows the direction that control is passed.
if control passes with tainted data through a variable then the line is red.
if it control passes without tainted data, the line is black.
the icons used for the expression type of each node in the diagram are the same icons used in the analysis evidence view.
to view the icons and the descriptions, see "analysis evidence view" on page 41.
filters tab the filters tab displays all the filters in the selected filter set.
the following table describes the filters tab options to create new filters.
option description filters displays a list of the visibility and folder filters configured in the selected filter set.
l visibility filters show or hide issues l folder filters sort the issues into the folder tabs in the issues view right-click a filter to show issues that match the filter or to enable, disable, copy, or delete it.
if displays the filters conditions.
the first list displays a list of issue attributes, the second list specifies how to match the attribute, and third is the value the filter matches.
note: this option is visible when you create a new filter or edit an existing filter.
in this case, a dialog box displays the if section.
then indicates the filter type, where hide issue is a visibility filter and set folder to is a folder filter.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 46 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results option description note: this option is visible when you create a new filter or edit an existing filter.
in this case, a dialog box displays the then section.
warnings tab the warnings tab lists any warnings that occurred during the analysis.
a common source of warnings are missing references.
to resolve this type of warning, make sure that the reference files are either within the project directory structure or in a location known to fortify static code analyzer.
the scan can also issue a warning if a particular class has no functional content.
in this case, the warning is not an issue because an empty class has no impact on a scan.
the following table describes the warnings tab options.
task procedure see the complete message that is truncated on the tab.
l double-click the message.
copy a warning message to the clipboard.
l right-click a message, and then select copy.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 47 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results task procedure save a warning message to a file.
save all the warning messages to a file.
1. right-click a message, and then select export entry.
2. type a name for the file, and then click save.
the file includes the audit project name, fpr file location, the warning code, and the warning message.
1. click export warnings 2.
type a name for the file, and then click save.
the file includes the project name, fpr file location, the warning codes, and the warning messages. .
search the warning message type the search text in the filter text box.
modify the text message at the top of the tab.
1. edit the <fortify_working_
dir>/config/tools/warnings-view.properties file where <fortify_working_dir> is: l windows: c:\users\<username>\appdata\local\fortify l non-windows: /home/<username>/.fortify
2. edit the text following message= to the text you want to display in the warning tab.
close and reopen the warnings tab to see the updated text.
functions view the functions view in the top right shows how and where a function occurs in the source code, whether or not the function was covered by a security rule, and which rule ids match the function.
the functions view can also list the functions that fortify static code analyzer identified as tainted source, and the functions that were not covered by rules in the last scan.
for detailed information about the functions view, see "using the functions view" on page 110.
customizing the issues view you can customize the issues view to determine which issues it displays.
to change the issues view: 1. select options > options.
2. in the left panel, select audit configuration.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 48 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results 3. to change your preferences on the appearance tab, select or clear the check boxes described in the following table.
preference description show suppressed issues displays all suppressed issues (disabled by default).
show removed issues displays all issues that were uncovered in the previous analysis, but are no longer evident in the new issues view.
when multiple scans are run on a project over time, vulnerabilities are often remediated or become obsolete.
fortify static code analyzer marks these vulnerabilities as removed issues.
show hidden issues displays all hidden issues.
collapse issues shows similar issues based on certain attributes under a shared parent node in the issues view.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 49 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results preference description use short file names references the issues in the issues view by file name only, instead of by relative path.
show category of issue displays the category of an issue in the issues and issue summary views.
show only my issues displays only issues assigned to you.
right justify ‘all’ folder displays the all folder aligned on the right.
display name in folder tabs show abstract in issue summary show comments in issue summary show ‘all’ folder in issue summary graph displays the name text in the folder tabs.
displays the abstract text in the summary.
displays comments in the summary.
displays another bar in the chart on the project summary tab.
include comments displays the history items for comments on the history tab.
note: to restore the default settings at any time, click reset interface.
4. to save your preferences, click ok.
working with issues this section provides information about how to use audit workbench to review issues.
filtering issues with audit guide you can use the audit guide wizard to filter vulnerability issues in your audit project based on a set of security-related questions.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 50 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results to use the audit guide: 1. select tools > audit guide.
2. make your selections for the types of issues you want to display.
3. to use the advanced filter options, click advanced mode.
the advanced audit guide dialog box opens.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 51 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results a. in the audit guide filters list, select the types of issues you want to filter out and ignore.
as you select items in the audit guide filters list, the audit guide wizard also displays the filter details for the selected filter type in the filters table, including the number of issues that match each filter.
b. to see a description of an issue type, click its name in the audit guide filters list.
the audit guide wizard displays a description to the right of the list.
4. click ok to apply your filter selections.
grouping issues the items visible in the navigation tree vary depending on the selected grouping option in the issues view.
the value you select from the group by list sorts issues in all visible folders into subfolders.
to list all issues in a folder without any grouping, select <none>.
you can view issues with any of the group by options, and you can create and edit customized groups.
the group by options enable you to group and view the issues in different ways.
in practice, you will probably switch frequently between different groupings.
the following table lists descriptions of the standard group by options.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 52 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results option analysis analysis type analyzer description groups issues by the audit analysis, such as suspicious, exploitable, and not an issue.
groups issues by analyzer product, such as sca, webinspect, and securityscope (webinspect agent).
groups issues by analyzer group, such as control flow, data flow, findbugs, pentest, and structural.
app defender protected groups issues by whether or not application defender can protect the vulnerability category.
category groups issues by vulnerability category.
this is the default setting.
category analyzer a custom group that groups issues by category and then by analyzer.
correlated groups issues by whether or not the issue is related directly or indirectly with an issue uncovered by another analyzer.
correlation group groups issues that are correlated with each other.
file name groups issues by file name.
fortify priority order groups issues as critical, high, medium, and low based on the analyzer's combined values of impact and likelihood.
kingdom manual new issue <metadata_listname> groups issues by the seven pernicious kingdoms classification.
groups issues by whether or not they were manually created by penetration test tools, and not automatically produced by a web crawler such as fortify webinspect.
shows which issues are new since the last scan.
for example, if you run a new scan, any issues that are new display in the tree under the new issues group and the others are displayed in the issue updated group.
issues not found in the latest scan are displayed in the removed list.
groups issues by the alternative metadata external list names (for example, owasp top 10 <year>, cwe, pci <version>, stig <version>, and so on).
package groups issues by package or namespace.
does not appear for projects to which this option does not apply, such as c projects.
priority by category a custom group that groups issues by fortify priority order and then by category.
shared trace node groups issues by the most common paths determined by the dataflow analyzer.
this grouping helps to maximize the number of issues that can be addressed by updating one location in the code.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 53 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results option sink smartview description groups issues that share the same dataflow sink function.
groups issues with a multiple-level grouping based on the last setting applied in smartview.
by default, groups issues by category, and then by shared trace nodes.
source groups issues that share the same dataflow source functions.
source file type groups issues by source file types fortify static code analyzer recognizes.
note: issues in files with different file extensions that are the same source file type are grouped together (for example, issues in files with the extensions: html, htm, and xhtml are grouped under html).
taint flag <none> edit groups issues by the taint flags that they contain.
displays a flat view without any grouping.
select edit to create a custom group by option.
the following table describes additional grouping options that are available when you create a custom group by option (see "creating a custom group by option" below).
option issue state description groups audited issues by whether the issue is an open issue or not an issue based on the level of analysis set for the primary tag.
values equivalent to suspicious and exploitable are considered open issue states.
primary context groups issues where the primary location or sink node function call occurs in the same code context.
source context groups dataflow issues that have the source function call contained in the same code context.
status url groups issues by the audit status (reviewed, unreviewed, or under review) groups dynamic issues by the request url.
creating a custom group by option you can create a custom group by option that groups issues in a hierarchical format in sequential order based on specific attributes.
to create a new grouping option: 1. in the group by list, select edit.
the edit custom groupings dialog box opens.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 54 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results 2. to create a custom group by option, do the following: a. select create new from the custom group name list.
b. c. click ok.
in the enter value dialog box, type a name for the new custom group.
3. from the grouping types list on the left, select a grouping type, and then click the right arrow to move the option to the grouping order column.
for example, selecting category and then analyzer creates a list that has top-level nodes that contain the category of the issue, such as buffer overflow, with the issues grouped below by analyzer (such as semantic, or dataflow), followed by the issues.
-buffer overflow [0/2] --dataflow
[0/1] ----main.cs:234 -+semantic
[0/1] 4. repeat step 3 to select additional grouping types.
5. to change the order of the grouping types: a. in the grouping order list, select the grouping type that you want to move up or down in the grouping order.
b. right-click the selected grouping type, and then select move up or move down from the shortcut menu.
6. to delete a custom grouping, click delete .
using smart view smart view provides a visual representation of the dataflow issues in your code so that you can quickly identify optimal remediation or triage strategies for multiple issues at once.
important!
to use smart view on linux systems you must configure audit workbench to use the internal eclipse swt browser.
see the swt faq on the eclipse website for instructions on how to do this.
alternatively, if you have webkit gtk installed, add the following parameter to -vmargs in the eclipse.ini file for audit workbench:
-dorg.eclipse.swt.browser.usewebkitgtk=true the eclipse.ini file for audit workbench is located in the <sca_install_ dir>/core/private-bin/awb/eclipse directory.
1. from the audit workbench toolbar, click smart view.
note: smart view uses the currently selected folder and grouping option.
the number of issues for the currently selected folder and grouping selection determines the relative size of the smart view tiles.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 55 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results 2. to filter the issues that are displayed, you can: l select a grouping from the folder list (for example, critical, high, medium, low, or all) this list includes any custom folders and folders specific to the current filter set.
l select a subfolder in the group by list to further sort the issues.
l from the then by list, select whether you are interested in viewing data by source, sink, or shared trace node.
shared trace node is a node (or function) in the code that multiple dataflows pass through.
note: to reset the display to the default smart view settings, click reset.
this resets folder to critical, group by to category, and then by to shared trace node.
3. click a tile to see the issues in each grouping.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 56 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results note: to return to the initial grouping level at any time, click zoom out .
4. to see the issues in the auditing interface that share a common dataflow trace node, source, or sink, move your cursor over the tile you are interested in, and then click view issues.
this closes smart view and returns you to the auditing interface and displays the issues for the selected grouping.
the group by category is set to smartview to indicate that you are viewing the results filtered by the smart view selection.
the search box contains the smart view icon and the smart view search criteria: .
to return to the primary auditing interface at any time, click exit smart view .
selectively displaying issues assigned to you to view display only issues assigned to you in the issues view, do one of the following: l select the my issues check box.
l select options > show only my issues.
about suppressed, removed, and hidden issues you can control whether the issues view lists the following types of issues: l suppressed issues.
as you assess successive scans of an application version, you might want to completely suppress some exposed issues.
it is useful to mark an issue as suppressed if you are sure that the specific vulnerability is not, and will never be, an issue of concern.
you might also want to hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 57 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results suppress warnings for specific types of issues that might not be high priority or of immediate concern.
for example, you can suppress issues that are fixed, or issues that you plan not to fix.
suppressed issues are not included in the group totals shown in the issues view.
l removed issues.
as multiple scans are run on a project over time, issues are often remediated or become obsolete.
as it merges scan results, fortify static code analyzer marks issues that were uncovered in a previous scan, but are no longer evident in the most recent fortify static code analyzer analysis results as removed.
removed issues are not included in the group totals shown in the issues view.
l hidden issues.
you typically hide a group of issues temporarily so that you can focus on other issues.
for example, you could hide all issues except those assigned to you.
the individuals assigned to address the issues you have hidden in your view can still access them.
the group totals displayed in the issues view include hidden issues.
to hide or show suppressed, removed, or hidden issues in the issues view: l from the options menu, select (or deselect) one or more of the following: l show suppressed issues l show removed issues l show hidden issues creating attribute summary tables for multiple issues you can create a summary table of attributes (for example, in spreadsheet software such as excel or google sheets) for any number of issues that you select from the issues view.
you specify the format options, select the issues, and then paste the comma delimited data into a spreadsheet program to create the summary table.
the table can contain an attributes column followed by a single values column for every issue selected or, the table can display one row per attribute and its corresponding values.
alternatively, you can specify a customized table layout for the values that you copy to your spreadsheet program.
to create a spreadsheet table that contains an attributes column followed by a single values column for each selected issue: in the left panel, select audit configuration, and then select the configuration tab.
1. select options > options.
2. 3. under multiple issues copy format, leave the [h] list issues in columns option selected.
4. select the attributes you want to include from the include immutable attributes, include mutable attributes, and include custom tags check boxes.
5. click ok.
6. from the issues view, use the ctrl or shift key and select all of the issues you want to include in a table.
7. with the issues selected, press ctrl + alt + shift + c. 8.
start the spreadsheet software, and then paste (ctrl + v) the copied data into a single column.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 58 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results to create a spreadsheet table that displays one row per attribute and its values: in the left panel, select audit configuration, and then select the configuration tab.
1. select options > options.
2. 3. under multiple issues copy format, select the [v] list issues in rows option.
4. select the attributes you want to include from the include immutable attributes, include mutable attributes, and include custom tags check boxes.
5. click ok.
6. from the issues view, use the ctrl or shift key and select all of the issues you want to include in a table.
7. with the issues selected, press ctrl + alt + shift + c. 8.
start the spreadsheet software, and then paste (ctrl + v) the copied data into a single column.
to create a customized table layout for the values that you copy to a spreadsheet program: in the left panel, select audit configuration, and then select the configuration tab.
1. select options > options.
2. 3. under multiple issues copy format, select the format manually option.
4. in the attribute value format box, use the string described in the following table to specify the data layout, format, and separators for the values you want to copy.
string function
[h]
[v] %s , ; or tab '…' %n columnar format - attributes are inserted in a single column and the spreadsheet table expands to the right (horizontally) with a new column added for each issue copied in.
row format - attributes are inserted in a single row (table header) and a new row populated with values is added for each issue added (table expands vertically).
textual data (you can use the complete java.util.formatter syntax).
see the java.util.formatter documentation at http://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/formatter.html.
separator symbol - to import the copied value into most spreadsheet programs, you have to specify the separator to use in the format field.
apply the preceding format string to all elements in the selection.
this is only valid if the format specification starts with [h] or [v].
line separator (platform independent), whether it is the last value for an issue in a row formatted table
[v] or it is the last value of a given attribute in a columnar formatted table
[h].
for example, to specify which specific attributes you want to copy with the row format ([v]), use [v]%file$s,%category$s,%fortify priority order$s%n.
this copies the three attributes for each selected issue.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 59 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results 5.
to see the result of your syntax, look under result example.
the example shown changes as you change the value in the attribute value format box.
note: examples are not available for complex manual formats.
6. select the attributes you want to include from the include immutable attributes, include mutable attributes, and include custom tags check boxes.
7. click ok.
searching for issues you can use the search box below the issues list to search for issues.
after you enter a search term, the label next to the folder name changes to indicate the number of issues that match the search as a subset of the total.
you can wrap search terms with delimiters to indicate the type of comparison to be performed.
the following table shows the syntax to use in the search string field.
comparison description contains searches for a term without any special qualifying delimiters equals regex number range not equal searches for an exact match when the term is wrapped in quotation marks ("") searches for values that match a java-style regular expression delimited by a forward slash (/) example: /eas.+?/ searches for a range of numbers using the standard mathematical interval notation of parentheses and/or brackets to indicate whether the endpoints are excluded or included respectively.
example: (2,4] means greater than two and less than or equal to four excludes issues specified by the string when you precede the string with the exclamation character (!) example: file:!main.java returns all issues that are not in main.java you can further qualify search terms with modifiers.
the syntax for using a modifier is modifier:<search_term>.
for more information, see "search modifiers" on the next page.
a search string can contain multiple modifiers and search terms.
if you specify more than one modifier, the search returns only issues that match all the modified search terms.
for example, file:applicationcontext.java category:sql injection returns only sql injection issues found in applicationcontext.java.
if you use the same modifier more than once in a search string, then the search terms qualified by those modifiers are treated as an or comparison.
for example, file:applicationcontext.java hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 60 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results category:sql injection category:cross-site scripting returns sql injection issues and cross-site scripting issues found in applicationcontext.java.
for complex searches, you can also insert the and or the or keyword between your search queries.
note that and and or operations have the same priority in searches.
for more information, see "search modifiers" below.
search modifiers you can use a search modifier to specify which attribute of an issue the search term applies to.
to use a modifier that contains a space in the name, such as the name of the custom tag, you must enclose the modifier in brackets.
for example, to search for issues that are new, enter [issue age]:new.
a search that is not qualified by a modifier tries to match the search string on the following attributes: kingdom, primary rule id, analyzer, filename, severity, class name, function name, instance id, package, confidence, type, subtype, taint flags, category, sink, and source.
l to apply the search to all modifiers, enter a string such as control flow.
this searches all of the modifiers and returns any result that contains the specified string.
l to apply the search to a specific modifier, type the modifier name and the string as follows: analyzer:control flow.
this returns all results whose analyzer is control flow.
the following table describes the search modifiers.
a few modifiers have a shortened modifier name indicated in parentheses.
you can use either modifier string.
search modifier description accuracy analysis [analysis type] analyzer searches for issues based on the accuracy value specified (0.1 through 5.0).
searches for issues that have the specified audit analysis value such as exploitable, not an issue, and so on.
searches for issues by analyzer product such as sca and webinspect.
searches the issues for the specified analyzer such as control flow, data flow, structural, and so on.
[app defender protected] (def) searches for issues based on whether or not application defender can protect the vulnerability category (protected or not protected).
[attack payload] searches for issues that contain the search term in the part of the request that caused the vulnerability for penetration test results.
[attack type] audience searches for issues based on the type of penetration test attack conducted (url, parameter, header, or cookie).
searches for issues based on intended audience such as dev, targeted, medium, broad, and so on.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 61 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results search modifier description audited body bug searches the issues to find true if the primary custom tag is set and false if the primary custom tag is not set.
the default primary tag is the analysis tag.
searches for issues that contain the search term in the http message body in penetration test results, which is all the data that is transmitted immediately following the headers.
searches for issues that contain the search term in the information for the filed bug.
note: this information is discarded each time you restart audit workbench.
category(cat) searches for the specified category or category substring.
class comments (comment, com) commentuser confidence (con) cookies correlated searches for issues based on the specified class name.
searches for issues that contain the search term in the comments that have been submitted on the issue.
searches for issues with comments from a specified user.
searches for issues that have the specified confidence value (legacy metadata).
searches for issues that contain the search term in the cookie from the http query for penetration test results.
searches for issues based on whether or not the issues are correlated with another analyzer.
[correlation group] searches for issues based on whether or not the issues are in the same correlation group.
dynamic file filetype searches for issues that have the specified dynamic hot spot ranking value.
searches for issues where the primary location or sink node function call occurs in the specified file.
searches for issues based on the file type such as asp, csharp, java, jsp, xml, and so on.
[fortify priority order] searches for issues that have a priority level that matches the specified priority determined by fortify static code analyzer.
valid values are critical, high, medium, and low, based on the expected impact and likelihood of exploitation.
the impact value indicates the potential damage that might result hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 62 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results search modifier description headers historyuser
[http version] impact [instance id]
[issue age]
[issue state] kingdom likelihood line manual [mapped category]
maxconf maxvirtconf method if an issue is successfully exploited.
the likelihood value is a combination of confidence, accuracy of the rule, and probability that the issue can be exploited.
searches for issues that contain the search term in the request header for penetration test results.
searches for issues that have audit data modified by the specified user.
searches for issues based on the specified http version such as http/1.1.
searches for issues based on the impact value specified (0.1 through 5.0).
searches for an issue based on the specified instance id. searches for the issue age, which is new, updated, reintroduced, or removed.
searches for audited issues based on whether or not the issue is an open issue or not an issue (determined by the level of analysis set for the primary tag).
searches for all issues in the specified kingdom.
searches for issues based on the specified likelihood value (0.1 through 5.0).
searches for issues on the primary location line number.
for dataflow issues, the value is the sink line number.
also see "sourceline" on page 65.
searches for issues based on whether or not they were manually created by penetration test tools, and not automatically produced by a web crawler such as fortify webinspect.
searches for issues based on the specified category that is mapped across the various analyzers (sca, webinspect, and webinspect agent).
searches for all issues that have a confidence value equal to or less than the number specified as the search term.
searches for dataflow issues that have a virtual call confidence value equal to or less than the number specified as the search term.
searches for issues based on the method, such as get, post, delete, and so on.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 63 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results search modifier description minconf searches for all issues that have a confidence value equal to or greater than the number specified as the search term.
min_virtual_call_ confidence (virtconf, minvirtconf) searches for dataflow issues that have a virtual call confidence value equal to or greater than the number specified as the search term.
package parameters primary [primary context] searches for issues where the primary location occurs in the specified package or namespace.
for dataflow issues, the primary location is the sink function.
searches for issues that contain the search term in the http query parameters.
searches for issues that have the specified primary tag value.
by default, the primary tag is the analysis tag.
searches for issues where the primary location or sink node function call occurs in the specified code context.
also see sink and [source context].
primaryrule (rule) searches for all issues related to the specified sink rule.
probability searches for issues based on the probability value specified (1.0 through 5.0).
[remediation effort] searches for issues based on the remediation effort value specified.
the valid values are whole numbers from 1.0 to 12..0.
[request id] response ruleid this attribute is not currently used.
searches for issues that contain the search term in the response from the protocol used in penetration test results.
searches for all issues reported by the specified rule ids used to generate the issue source, sink and all passthroughs.
[secondary requests] this attribute is not currently used.
severity (sev) searches for issues based on the specified severity value (legacy metadata).
sink source searches for issues that have the specified sink function name.
also see [primary context].
searches for dataflow issues that have the specified source function name.
also see [source context].
[source context] searches for dataflow issues that have the source function call contained in the specified code context.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 64 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results search modifier description sourcefile sourceline status suppressed taint trace tracenode also see source and [primary context].
searches for dataflow issues with the source function call that the specified file contains.
also see file.
searches for dataflow issues having taint source entering the flow on the specified line.
also see "line" on page 63.
searches issues that have the status reviewed, not reviewed, or under review.
searches for issues based on whether or not they are suppressed.
searches for issues that have the specified taint flag.
searches for issues that have the specified string in the dataflow trace.
enables you to search on the nodes within an issue’s analysis trace.
each tracenode search value is a concatenation of the tracenode’s file path, line number, and additional information.
tracenodeallpaths searches for the specified value in all the steps of analysis evidence.
trigger url user searches for issues that contain the search term in the part of the response that shows that a vulnerability occurred for penetration test results.
searches for issues based on the specified url.
searches for issues assigned to the specified user.
<custom_tagname> searches for issues based on the value of the specified custom tag.
you can search a list-type custom tag using a range of values.
the values of a list-type custom tag are an enumerated list where the first value is 0, the second is 1, and so on.
you can use the search syntax for a range of numbers to search for ranges of list-type custom tag values.
for example, analysis:[0,2] returns the issues that have the values of the first three analysis values, 0, 1, and 2 (not an issue, reliability issue, and bad practice).
to search a date-type custom tag, specify the date in the format: yyyy-mm-dd. searches for issues based on the value of the specified metadata external list.
metadata external lists include cwe, fisma, [owasp top 10 2013], [pci 3.2], [stig 4.2], and others.
<metadata_listname> hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 65 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results search query examples the following are search query examples that use search modifiers.
l to search for all privacy violations in file names that contain jsp with getssn() as a source, type: category:"privacy violation" source:getssn file:jsp l to search for all file names that contain com/fortify/awb, type: file:com/fortify/awb l to search for all paths that contain traces with mydbcode.sqlcleanse as part of the name, type: trace:mydbcode.sqlcleanse l to search for all paths that contain traces with cleanse as part of the name, type: trace:cleanse l to search for all issues that contain cleanse as part of any modifier, type: cleanse l to search for all suppressed vulnerabilities with asdf in the comments, type: suppressed:true comments:asdf l to search for all categories except for sql injection, type: category:!sql injection performing simple searches to use the search box to perform a simple search, do one of the following: l type a search string in the box and press enter.
alternatively, l to select a search term you used previously, click the arrow in the search box, and then select a search term from the list.
to get assistance to compose the comparison for your search string, do the following: 1. click your cursor in the search box, and then press ctrl + space.
2. from the displayed list, double-click an issue attribute to begin your search string.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 66 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results 3. to get assistance to specify the comparison, with your cursor placed after the modifier in the search box, press ctrl + space.
4. from the displayed list, double-click the comparison to add to your search string.
5. type the rest of the search term.
the issues view lists all of the issues that match your search string.
audit workbench saves all of the search terms you enter for the current session.
to select a search term you used previously, click the arrow in the search box, and then select a search term.
(after you close audit workbench, the saved search terms are discarded.)
to create complex search strings can involve several steps.
if you enter an invalid search string, the magnifying glass icon in the text field changes to a warning icon to notify you of the error.
click the warning sign to view information about the search term error.
the advanced search feature makes it easier to build complex search strings.
for a description of this feature and instructions on how to use it, see "performing advanced searches" below.
performing advanced searches you can use the advanced search feature to build complex search strings.
to use the advanced search feature: 1. to the right of the search box, click advanced.
2. to create your search query: a. from the list of the left, select the modifier.
b.
from the middle list, select the comparison and type.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 67 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results c. from the list on the right, select the search term.
the list for the search term includes the known values in the current scan for the specified attribute.
however, you can type any value into this field.
to specify an unqualified search term, select any attribute from the bottom of the modifier list.
3. to add another query row, do one of the following: l to add an and query row, in the top right corner of the dialog box, click and .
l to add an or query row, in the top right corner of the dialog box, click or .
4. add as many query rows as you need for the search.
5. to delete a row, to the right of the row, click delete 6.
click find. .
to remove all rows, click clear.
note: as you build your search string, the advanced search dialog box displays any errors in the status below the search string builder.
the find button is only enabled after you resolve all errors.
about issue templates fortify static code analyzer produces comprehensive results for source code analysis.
on large codebases, these results can be overwhelming.
the issue template assigned to your projects enables you to sort and filter the results to best suit your needs.
the filtering and sorting mechanisms appropriate during a given phase in the development process can change depending on the phase of development.
similarly, the filtering and sorting mechanisms might vary depending on the role of the user.
you can sort issues by grouping them into folders, which are logically defined sets of issues presented in the tabs on the issues.
you can further customize the sorting to provide custom definitions for the folders into which the issues are sorted.
you can provide definitions for any number of folders, whose contents are then defined by filters.
filters can either alter the visibility of an issue or place it into a folder.
when used to sort issues into folders, you define the nature of the issues that appear in the customized folders.
you group filters into filter sets and then use the filter sets to sort and filter the issues displayed.
an issue template can contain definitions for multiple filter sets.
using multiple filter sets in an audit project enables you to quickly change the sorting and visibility of the issues you are auditing.
for example, the default issue template used in the interface provides two filter sets.
these filter sets provide an increasingly restrictive view of security-related issues.
defining multiple filter sets for an audit project enables different users different views, and a customized view does not affect any other views.
in addition to providing sorting and filtering mechanisms, you can also customize the auditing process by defining custom tags in the issue template.
auditors associate custom tags with issues during auditing.
for example, custom tags can be used to track impact, severity, or priority of an issue using the same names and values used to track these attributes in other systems, such as a bug tracker application.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 68 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results issue templates contain the following settings: l folder filters—control how issues are sorted into the folders l visibility filters—control which issues are shown and hidden l filter sets—group folder and/or visibility filters l folder properties—name, color, and the filter set in which it is active l custom tags—specify which audit fields are displayed and the values for each the issue template applied to an audit project is determined using the following preference order:
1. template that exists in the audit project 2. template in <sca_install_dir>/core/config/filters/defaulttemplate.xml 3.
template in <sca_install_dir>/core/config/rules/defaulttemplate.xml or projecttemplate.xml 4. embedded fortify default template configuring custom filter sets and filters if the filter sets available in audit workbench do not exactly suit your needs, you can create your own, either by using the filter wizard, or by copying and then modifying an existing filter set.
if you are performing collaborative audits on fortify software security center, you can synchronize your custom filters with fortify software security center.
for more information, see "committing filter sets and folders" on page 81 and "synchronizing filter sets and folders" on page 81.
this section provides instructions on how to: l create a new filter set l create filters from the issues view and add them to a filter set l create filters on the filters tab and add them to a filter set l copy a filter to a different filter set creating a new filter set to create a new filter set, copy an existing set and modify the settings.
to create a new filter set: 1. select tools > project configuration.
2. click the filter sets tab.
3.
next to filter sets, click add filter set .
the add new filter set dialog box opens.
4. type a name for the new filter set.
5. select an existing filter set to copy.
6. click ok.
a new filter set with the same folders, visibility filters, and folder filters as the copied filter set is created.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 69 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results creating a filter from the issues view when a folder list includes an issue that you want to hide or direct to another folder, you can create a new filter using the filter wizard.
the wizard displays all the attributes that match the conditions in the filter.
note: to find the filter that directed the issue to the folder, right-click the issue, and then select why is this issue here?
to find the filter that hid an issue, right-click the issue, and then select why is this issue hidden?
to create a new filter from an issue: in the issues view, select a filter set from the filter set list.
1. 2. right-click an issue, and then select create filter.
the create filter dialog box lists suggested conditions.
3. to see all of the conditions, select the show all conditions check box.
4. select the conditions you want to use in the filter.
you can fine tune the filter later by modifying it on the filter tab.
5. select the type of filter you want to create, as follows: l to create a visibility filter, select hide issue.
l to create a folder filter, select set folder to, and then select the folder name or select other folder to add an existing folder or create a new one.
a new folder is displayed in this filter set only.
6. click create filter.
the wizard places the new filter at the end of the filter list.
for folder filters, this gives the new filter the highest priority.
issues that match the new folder filter appear in the targeted folder.
7. (optional) for folder filters, drag the filter higher in the folder filter list to change the priority.
the issues are sorted with the new filter.
note: the filter is created only in the selected filter set.
creating a filter from the issue auditing view use the filters tab in the issue auditing view to create visibility filters and folder filters.
folder filters are applied in order and the issue is directed to the last folder filter it matches in the list.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 70 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results to create a new filter on the filters tab: 1. from the filter set list, select a filter set.
2. click the filters tab in the issue auditing view.
3. right-click visibility filters or folder filters, and then select create new filter.
the create filter dialog box opens.
4. from the first list, select an issue attribute.
the second list is automatically populated.
5. from the second list, select how to match the value.
the third list contains the possible values for the attribute.
6. select a value or specify a range as instructed in the if line.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 71 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results 7.
set then to one of the following options: l to create a visibility filter, select hide issue.
l to create a folder filter, select set folder to, and then select the folder name or select other folder to add a folder from another filter set or create a new folder.
8. click save.
the new filter is displayed at the end of the list.
for folder filters, this gives the new filter the highest priority.
issues that match the new folder filter appear in the targeted folder.
9. (optional) for folder filters, drag the filter higher in the folder filter list to change the priority.
the issues are sorted with the new filter.
note: the filter is created in the selected filter set only.
copying a filter from one filter set to another filter settings are local to a filter set.
however, you can copy the filter to another filter set in the audit project.
if you copy a folder filter to another set and that folder is not already active in the set, the folder is automatically added.
to copy a filter: in the issues view, select a filter set from the filter set list.
1. 2. click the filters tab in the issue auditing view.
3. right-click a filter, and then select copy filter to from the shortcut menu.
the select a filter set dialog box opens with a list off all the filter sets.
4. select a filter set, and then click ok.
the filter is added to the filter set in the last position.
5. (optional) for folder filters, you can adjust the order of the filter list by dragging and dropping the filter to a different location in the list.
setting the default filter set to specify the default filter set used to view scan findings: 1. in the issues view, click the filter set list, and then select edit.
the project configuration dialog box opens to the filter sets tab.
in the filter sets list, select the filter set you want to use as the default for the issue template.
2. 3. select the default filter set check box, and then click ok.
managing folders folders are logical sets of issues that are defined by the filters in the active filter set.
even though a folder can appear in more than one filter set, the contents might differ depending on the filters in that hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 72 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results filter set that target the folder.
to accommodate filter sets intend to provide sorting mechanisms that result in little overlap, you can have filter sets with different folders.
folders are defined independent of the filter sets they may appear in.
for example, a filter set might place low priority issues into a red folder that is labeled "hot."
creating a folder you can create a new folder so that you can display a group of issues you have filtered to the folder.
folders must have unique names.
note: if this functionality is restricted to administrator users, and you are not an administrator, you cannot create folders.
to create a new folder: 1. select tools > project configuration.
2. click the folders tab.
the folders panel on the left lists the folders for the filter set selected in the folder for filter set list.
fields on the right show the name, color, and description of the selected folder.
3. to associate the folder with an existing filter set, select the filter set from the filter set list.
select (all folders) to create a new folder in the issue template without associating the folder to a specific filter set.
you can associate the folder with an existing filter set later.
note: selecting a filter set updates the folders list to display the folders that are associated with the selected filter set.
4. to add a folder: a. next to folders, click add folder the add folder dialog box opens. .
note: if you have created folders in other filter sets, the add new folder to filter set dialog box opens.
click create new.
b. type a unique name for the new folder, and then select a folder color.
c. click ok.
the folder is added to the bottom of the folder list.
in the description box, type a description for the new folder.
5. 6. to change the tab position of the folder on the issues view, drag the folder up or down in the folders list.
the top position is on the left and the bottom position is on the right.
7. to put all issues that do not match a folder filter into this folder, select the default folder check box.
8. click ok.
the folder is displayed as a tab with the other folders.
if you selected default, all issues that do not match a folder filter are displayed.
the new folder is added to the issue template for the audit project.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 73 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results note: to display issues in this folder, create a folder filter that targets the new folder.
for more information, see "creating a filter from the issues view" on page 70 and "creating a filter from the issue auditing view" on page 70.
adding a folder to a filter set this section describes how to enable an existing folder in a filter set.
create a new folder that appears only in the selected filter set using the instructions in "creating a folder" on the previous page.
to display issues in this folder, create a folder filter that targets the new folder.
to add a folder to a filter set: 1. select tools > project configuration.
the project configuration dialog box opens.
2. click the folders tab.
3. click the filter set list to select the filter set to which you want to add a folder.
the folders list displays the folders in the selected filter set.
4. next to folders, click add folder .
the add new folder to filter set dialog box opens.
note: if the selected filter set already includes all existing folders, the create folder dialog box opens and you can create a new folder for the selected filter set.
5. select the folder to add to the selected filter set, and then click select.
6. click ok.
the folder is displayed as a tab along with the other folders.
renaming a folder you can rename a folder.
modifying the name of a folder is a global change reflected in all filter sets.
to rename a folder: 1. select tools > project configuration.
2. click the folders tab.
3. 4. select the folder in the folders list.
in the filter set list, select (all folders).
the folder properties are displayed on the right.
5. type the new name for the folder.
the folder name changes in the folders list as you type.
6. click ok.
the new folder name displays on the tabs.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 74 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results removing a folder you can remove a folder from a filter set without removing it from other filter sets.
to remove a folder: 1. select tools > project configuration.
2. click the folders tab.
3. select a filter set from the filter set list.
the folders list displays the folders in the selected filter set.
4. select the folder, and then next to folders, click delete folder .
note: the folder is removed only from the selected filter set.
if the folder is a target of a folder filter, the conflicts occurred removing folder dialog box opens.
do one of the following: a. to target the filter to a different folder, select a folder from the retarget the filters list, and then click retarget filters.
b. to delete the filter, click delete filters, and then click yes to confirm the deletion.
5. click ok to close the project configuration dialog box.
the folder is no longer displayed as a tab in the issues view.
configuring custom tags for auditing to audit code in fortify software security center, the security team examines project scan results (fpr) and assigns values to custom tags associated with application version issues.
the development team can then use these tag values to determine which issues to address and in what order.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 75 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results the analysis tag is provided by default.
the analysis tag is a list-type tag and has the following valid values: not an issue, reliability issue, bad practice, suspicious, and exploitable.
you can modify the analysis tag attributes, change the tag values, or add new values based on your auditing needs.
to refine your auditing process, you can define your own custom tags.
you can create the following types of custom tags: list, decimal, string, and date.
for example, you could create a list-type custom tag to track the sign-off process for an issue.
after a developer audits his own issues, a security expert can review those same issues and mark each as “approved” or “not approved.”
you can also define custom tags from fortify software security center, either directly with issue template uploads through fortify software security center, or from audit workbench through issue templates in fpr files.
note: although you can add new custom tags from audit workbench as you audit a project, if these custom tags are not defined in fortify software security center for the issue template associated with the application version, then the new tags are lost if you upload the fpr file to fortify software security center.
you can add the following attributes to your custom tags: l extensible—this enables users to create a new value while auditing, even without the permission to manage custom tags.
l restricted—this restricts who can set the tag value on an issue.
administrators, security leads, and managers have permission to audit restricted tags.
l hidden (fortify software security center only)—use this setting to hide a tag from an application version or issue template.
after you define a custom tag, it is displayed below the analysis tag, which enables you to specify values as they relate to specific issues.
custom tags are also available in other areas of the interface, such as in the group by list as a way to group issues in a folder, in the search field as a search modifier (similarly available as a modifier for filters), and in the project summary graph as an attribute by which to graphically sort issues.
adding a custom tag you can create custom tags to use in auditing results.
custom tags are project-wide and are saved as part of an issue template.
to add a custom tag: 1. select tools > project configuration.
2. select the custom tags tab.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 76 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results 3.
next to tags, click add tag .
note: if you previously deleted tags, these are listed and you can re-enable them.
to create a new tag, click create new.
the add new tag dialog box opens.
in the name box, type a name for the new tag.
4. important: make sure that the name you specify for a custom tag is not a database reserved word.
5. from the type list, select one of the following tag types: l list—accepts selection from a list of values that you specify for the tag l date—accepts a calendar date l decimal—accepts a number with a precision of up to 18 (up to 9 decimal places) l text—accepts a string with up to 500 characters (html/xml tags and newlines are not allowed)
6. click ok.
the tags list now includes the new tag.
7. configure any or all of the following optional tag settings: l to allow users to add new values for a list-type tag in an audit, leave the extensible check box selected.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 77 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results l to allow only administrators, security leads, and managers to set this tag on an issue, select the restricted check box.
l enter a description of the custom tag in the description box.
l for a list-type tag, from the default value list, select the default value for the tag.
if you do not specify a default value, the default is null.
8. to add a value for a list-type tag, do the following: a. from the tags list, select the tag name.
b.
next to values, click add value c. d. enter a description of the value in the description box.
e. repeat steps a through d for each additional value required for the new tag.
in the enter value dialog box, type a value, and then click ok. .
9. to make this custom tag the primary tag: note: you can only set a list-type tag as a primary tag.
a. click set primary tag.
b. select
the custom tag from the primary tag list, and then click ok.
the primary tag determines the audit status for each issue as well as the audit icon in the issues view.
by default the primary tag is analysis.
the summary tab in the issue auditing view now displays the new tag and its default value (if you assigned one).
deleting a custom tag if you delete a custom tag, it is no longer available on the issue auditing view's summary tab or as a search or filter option.
to delete a custom tag: 1. select tools > project configuration.
the project configuration dialog box opens.
2. click the custom tags tab.
3. select the tag from the tags list.
4. next to tags, click delete tag 5.
click ok.
if you delete a tag that has an associated filter, you are prompted to delete the filter. .
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 78 of 134 click yes.
version, click no. o to upload the custom tags to the global pool without assigning them to the application o to prevent uploading the custom tags to fortify software security center, click cancel.
l if the issue template does not exist on fortify software security center: o to upload the custom tags to the global pool only on fortify software security center, click user guide chapter 4: scan results committing custom tags to fortify software security center to commit custom tags to fortify software security center: 1. with an audit project open, select tools > project configuration.
2. select the custom tags tab.
3. click commit.
4. if prompted, enter your fortify software security center credentials.
the custom tag upload dialog box opens.
5. do one of the following: l if the issue template and the application version already exist on fortify software security center: o to upload the custom tags to the global pool and assign them to the application version, yes.
o to prevent uploading the custom tags to fortify software security center, click no.
synchronizing custom tags with fortify software security center to synchronize custom tags for an audit project that has been uploaded to fortify software security center.
1. select tools > project configuration.
2. select the custom tags tab.
3. select the custom tag.
4. click synchronize.
5. if required, enter your fortify software security center credentials.
the custom tag download dialog box opens.
if the application version and the issue template both exist on fortify software security center, select either application version or issue template to specify from where to download the custom tags.
6. 7. to download custom tags from the issue template, click yes.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 79 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results issue template sharing once an issue template is associated with an audit project, all changes made to that template, such as the addition of folders, custom tags, filter sets, or filters, apply to the audit project.
the issue template is stored in the fpr when the audit project is saved.
for information about how to associate the issue template with an audit project, see "importing an issue template" below.
with issue templates, you can use the same project settings for another project.
exporting an issue template exporting an issue template creates a file that contains the filter sets, folders, and custom tags for the current project.
after you export an issue template, you can import it into another audit project file.
to export an issue template: 1. select tools > project configuration.
2. click the filter sets tab.
3. click export.
the select a template file location dialog box opens.
4. browse to the location where you want to save the file.
5. type a file name without an extension.
6. click save.
the current template settings are saved to an xml file.
importing an issue template importing an issue template overwrites the audit project configuration settings.
the local filter sets and custom tags are replaced with the filter sets and custom tags in the issue template.
to import an issue template: 1. select tools > project configuration.
2. click the filter sets tab.
3. click import.
the locate template file dialog box opens.
4. select the issue template file to import.
5. click open.
the filter sets, custom folders, and custom tags are updated.
note: you can also click reset to default to return the settings to the default issue template.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 80 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results synchronizing filter sets and folders to download filter sets and folders configured from fortify software security center: 1. select tools > project configuration.
2. click the filter sets tab.
3. click synchronize.
a message advises you that downloading filter sets and folders from fortify software security center overwrites your local filter sets and folders.
4. to proceed with the synchronization, click yes.
5. 6. if required, provide your fortify software security center credentials, and then click ok.
if the current issue template does not exist on fortify software security center, do the following: in the issue template column, select an issue template name.
a. b.
click ok. audit workbench downloads the filter sets and folders from the selected issue template on fortify software security center, and overwrites your current issue template.
committing filter sets and folders if you want to upload filter sets and folders to an issue template on fortify software security center, do the following: 1. select tools > project configuration.
2. click the filter sets tab.
3. select the filter set from the list.
4. click commit.
5. if required, provide your fortify software security center credentials.
the update existing issue template or add issue template dialog box opens, depending on whether the issue template already exists in fortify software security center.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 81 of 134 user guide chapter 4: scan results 6.
do one of the following: a. to upload filter sets and folders to the issue template, click yes.
b. to add the issue template that contains the current set of custom tags to fortify software security center, click yes.
advanced configuration this section contains the following topics: l "integrating with a bug tracker application" below l "public apis" below l "penetration test schema" below integrating with a bug tracker application audit workbench provides a plugin interface to integrate with bug tracker applications.
this enables you to file bugs directly from audit workbench.
for a list of supported bug tracker applications, see the hpe security fortify software system requirements document.
to select the plugin to use: 1. open an audit project.
2. select tools > select bugtracker.
if installed with fortify sca and applications, example source code for bug tracker plugins is available in <sca_install_dir>/samples/advanced/bugtrackerplugin<bugtracker>, where <bugtracker> is the name of the bug tracker application.
to write your own plugin, see the instructions in the readme text file, which is located in each bug tracker directory.
information about the api is included in the javadoc located in <sca_install_
dir>/samples/advanced/javadoc/public-api/index.html.
public apis hpe security fortify publishes public apis so that you can create custom third-party parsers for pentest tools and services that are not included in the default distribution.
the apis are located in (fortify-public-*.jar), and you can use them to compile your custom parser.
penetration test schema hpe security fortify also provides a generic penetration test schema (pentestimport.xsd) that you can view in <sca_install_dir>/core/config/schemas.
this provides another option for importing additional pentest results.
instead of creating a custom parser for your tool or service, you can translate the results into the fortify generic format (using xslt or a similar technology).
you can then open or merge these translated results automatically, similar to the built-in parsers.
see "third-party penetration results" on page 95 for more information.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 82 of 134 chapter 5: auditing analysis results when fortify static code analyzer scans application source code, its discoveries are presented as potential vulnerabilities rather than actual vulnerabilities.
every application is unique, and all functionality runs within a particular context understood best by the development team.
no technology can fully determine whether a suspect behavior can be considered a vulnerability without direct developer confirmation.
for example, fortify static code analyzer might discover that a web page designed to display data to the user (for example, a financial transaction record page) appears to allow any authenticated user to request any data with no check of viewing permission.
whether or not this behavior is considered a vulnerability depends entirely on the intended design of the application.
if the application is supposed to allow any user to see all data, then the auditor can mark the discovery as a non-issue; otherwise, the auditor can mark the issue as a vulnerability for the team to address.
the topics in this section provide information about how to audit scan results opened in audit workbench.
this section contains the following topics: working with audit projects evaluating issues submitting an issue as a bug correlation justification third-party penetration results 83 87 91 91 95 working with audit projects after you scan a project, you can audit the analysis results.
you can also audit the results of a collaborative audit from fortify software security center.
opening an audit project to open an audit project: 1. start audit workbench.
2. select file > open project.
the select audit project dialog box opens.
3. browse to and select the fpr file, and then click open.
opening audit projects without the default filter set if you open an audit project that does not contain the filter set specified as the default filter set for new projects (by default this is the quick view filter set), a message is displayed to inform you that the filter hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 83 of 134 user guide chapter 5: auditing analysis results set is not available in the audit project’s issue template.
the default filter set from the template is loaded at startup, regardless of the setting.
this would also happen, for example, with any fpr files downloaded from the fortify on demand server.
to resolve this, do one of the following: l to apply the default filter set from the current issue template, click cancel.
l to update the issue template for the project, click update issue template.
after you select update issue template, some of the filter sets that were available before the update, for example developer view and critical exposure, are no longer available.
a warning is displayed to let you know that the update cannot be undone.
l to ensure that the default filter set for the project is never overridden, click never override default filter set.
performing a collaborative audit you can audit a project on fortify software security center collaboratively with other fortify software security center users.
to start a collaborative audit: 1. start audit workbench.
if you already have an audit project open, close it.
2. under open collaborative audit, click sign in.
3. type your fortify software security center logon credentials.
audit workbench displays a list of applications that you have permission to access.
4. select an application version to audit.
to quickly find an application version, type the name or partial name of an application in the search box.
the search is case-insensitive.
to clear the search results, clear the search box.
if necessary, click refresh to update the list of applications on fortify software security center.
the audit project file is downloaded from fortify software security center and opened in audit workbench.
5. audit the project as described in "evaluating issues" on page 87.
6.
when you have completed the audit, select tools > upload audit project.
note: if necessary, you can refresh your fortify software security center audit permission settings.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 84 of 134 user guide chapter 5:
auditing analysis results see "refreshing permissions from fortify software security center" below.
refreshing permissions from fortify software security center the security content administrator assigns roles to users that determine the actions they can perform in fortify software security center.
when you work on a collaborative audit and the administrator changes your auditing permissions, you might need to refresh the permissions in audit workbench.
to refresh your permissions from fortify software security center: 1. select options > options.
2. 3. click refresh permissions for the current audit.
4. click ok.
in the left panel, select server configuration.
merging audit data audit data are the custom tags and comments that were added to an issue.
you can merge the audit data for your project with audit data from another results file.
comments are merged into a chronological list and custom tag values are updated.
if custom tag values conflict (if the same tag is set to different values for a given issue), audit workbench prompts you to resolve the conflict.
note: issues are not merged.
merged results include only the issues found in the latest scan.
issues uncovered in the older scan that were not uncovered in the latest scan are marked as removed and are hidden by default.
make sure that the projects you merge contain the same analysis information.
that is, make sure that the scans were performed on the same source code (no missing libraries or files), the fortify static code analyzer settings were the same, and the scan was performed using the same security content.
to merge projects: 1. open a project in audit workbench.
2. select tools > merge audit projects.
3. select an audit project (fpr file), and then click open.
the progress information dialog box opens.
when complete, the merge dialog box opens.
note: after you select an fpr, audit workbench might prompt you to choose between the issue template in the current fpr and the issue template in the fpr you are merging in.
4. click yes to confirm the number of issues added or removed from the file.
note: if the scan is identical, no issues are added or removed.
the project now contains all audit data from both result files.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 85 of 134 user guide chapter 5: auditing analysis results merging audit data using the command-line utility you can also use the fprutility command-line utility to merge audit data.
this utility enables you to merge an audited project, verify the signature of the fpr, or migrate earlier fpr files to the current format.
for more information about how to use this utility, see the hpe security fortify static code analyzer user guide.
migration for fortify static code analyzer version 5.x projects occurs automatically with the merge action.
merging combines all analysis information resolving conflicts using the values set in the primary project.
the merge produces an output project file that contains the analysis information from the primary project.
the signature action prints the full signature information.
exit codes are used to relay the validity of the signature.
additional metadata each issue in audit workbench contains additional metadata that is not produced by hpe’s internal analyzers.
examples include alternative categories (for example, owasp, cwe, wasc), and prioritization values that are used in the default filters (for example, impact, accuracy, probability).
you can view the metadata attributes through the standard grouping and search mechanisms.
if you open an older fpr that does not contain metadata values, the metadata values for the issues are retrieved from legacy mapping files.
these legacy mapping files exist in the <sca_install_ dir>/core/config/legacymappings directory, and are indexed by either issue category, or issue category and analyzer.
the legacy mapping files are accessed as needed, so each issue in your project must always have metadata values, whether those values come from the fpr, the legacy mapping files, or a combination of the two.
uploading audit results to fortify software security center when you work on a collaborative audit and the project was downloaded from fortify software security center, audit workbench retains the application version for the audit project.
if you want to upload the audit project to a different application version, you need to disconnect the audit project from fortify software security center before you upload the results.
to disconnect the current audit project from fortify software security center, select options > options, click server configuration, and then click disconnect the current audit.
to upload results to fortify software security center: 1. select tools > upload audit project.
2. 3. if prompted, enter your fortify software security center credentials.
if the audit project is not already associated with an application version, select an application version, and then click ok.
note: if you see a message that the application version is not committed or does not exist, this hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 86 of 134 user guide chapter 5: auditing analysis results indicates that you opened an audit project that was previously associated with an application version that does not exist on the fortify software security center to which fortify audit workbench is currently connected.
disconnect the audit project from fortify software security center as described previously in this section.
a message notifies you when the upload is complete.
4. click ok. updates you made to issues including comments and tag values (for tags that already exist for the application version on fortify software security center) are uploaded.
note: if you created any custom tags or filter sets for your project's issue template, you must first commit them to fortify software security center before you upload the project so that information is also uploaded.
see "committing custom tags to fortify software security center" on page 79 and "committing filter sets and folders" on page 81 for more information.
evaluating issues to evaluate and assign audit values to an issue or group of issues: 1. select the issue or group of issues in the issues view.
2. for information about the issues view, see "about viewing scan results" on page 31.
in the issue auditing view, read the abstract on the summary tab.
this abstract provides high- level information about the issue, such as the analyzer that found the issue.
for example, command injection (input validation and representation, dataflow) indicates that this issue, detected by the dataflow analyzer, is a command injection issue in the input validation and representation kingdom.
3. click the more information link to get more details about the issue.
4. on the summary tab, specify an analysis value for the issue to represent your evaluation.
5. specify values for any custom tags as required by your organization.
for text-type custom tags, you can click edit text accepts up to 500 characters (html/xml tags and newlines are not allowed).
to see and edit long text strings.
this tag 6.
for date-type custom tags, you can click if the audit results have been submitted to audit assistant in fortify software security center, then you can specify whether to include or exclude the issue from audit assistant training from the aa_training list.
to select a date from a calendar.
note: if you select a different value for analysis than the aa_prediction value set by audit assistant, and you select include from the aa_training list, then the next time the data is submitted to audit assistant, it updates the information used to predict whether or not an issue represents a true vulnerability.
for more information about audit assistant, see the hpe security fortify software security center user guide.
7. (optional) in the comments box, type comments relevant to the issue and your evaluation.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 87 of 134 user guide chapter 5: auditing analysis results performing quick audits as you audit issues, you can use a keyboard combination to assign an analysis value to multiple selected issues.
to assign an analysis value to multiple issues simultaneously: in the issues view, select the issues to which you want to assign the same analysis value.
1. 2. press ctrl + shift + a (cmd + shift + a on macos).
note: do not hold this keyboard combination in the next step.
3. press one of the following number keys: l to assign not an issue, press 1 l to assign reliability issue, press 2 l to assign bad practice, press 3 l to assign suspicious, press 4 l to assign exploitable, press 5 l to assign a custom analysis value configured for your organization, press the number that corresponds to its position in the analysis list on the summary tab.
shortcuts are provided for only the first ten values in the analysis list.
(to assign the tenth value in the list, you press ctrl + shift + a, and then press 0).
if no value is listed for the key you press, no value is assigned.
performing quick audits for custom tags instead of using the analysis tag for quick audits, you can use a custom tag your organization has created.
to use a custom tag for quick audits: 1. select options > options.
in the left panel, select audit configuration, and then click the configuration tab on the right.
2. 3.
under quick audit preference, from the attribute to use for quick action audit list, select a custom tag.
note: only list-type tags are available to use for quick audits.
if no custom tags have been created, the list only includes the analysis tag.
4. click ok.
the keyboard shortcut functions just as it does for the analysis tag values.
shortcuts are provided for only the first ten values in the list of custom tag values.
(to assign the tenth value in the list, you press ctrl + shift + a, and then press 0).
if there is no value in the list for the key you press, no value is assigned.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 88 of 134 user guide chapter 5: auditing analysis results for information about custom tags, see "configuring custom tags for auditing" on page 75.
adding screen captures to issues you can attach a screen shot or other image to an issue.
attached images are stored in the fpr file and can be accessed from fortify software security center.
the following image formats are supported: l gif l jpg l png to add an image to an issue: 1. select the issue.
2. 3. click add.
in the issue auditing panel, click the screenshots tab.
the new screenshot dialog box opens.
4. browse to and select the image file.
5. (optional) in the description box, type a description.
6. click add.
viewing images after you add an image to an issue, the image is displayed on the right side of the screenshots tab.
to view a full-size version and complete description of an image added to an issue: in the issue auditing panel, click the screenshots tab.
in the list, click an image to view.
1. 2. 3. click preview.
creating issues for undetected vulnerabilities add undetected issues that you want to identify as issues to the issues list.
you can audit manually configured issues on the summary tab, just as you do other issues.
to create an issue: 1. select the object in the line of code in the source code view.
2. right-click the line that contains the issue, and then select create new issue.
the create new issue dialog box opens.
3. select the issue category, and then click ok.
the issues list displays the file name and source code line number for the new issue next to a blue icon.
the rule information in the summary tab includes custom issue.
you can edit the issue to include audit information, just as you can other issues.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 89 of 134 user guide chapter 5: auditing analysis results suppressing issues you can suppress issues that are either fixed or that you do not plan to fix.
to suppress an issue, do one of the following: l in the issues view, select the issue, and then, on the summary tab in the issue auditing view, click suppress .
l in the issues view, right-click the issue, and then click suppress issue.
note: you can select and suppress multiple issues at the same time.
suppression marks the issue and all future discoveries of this issue as suppressed.
as such, it is a semi- permanent marking of a vulnerability.
to display issues that have been suppressed, select options > show suppressed issues.
to unsuppress an issue, first display the suppressed issues and then do one of the following: l in the issues view, select the suppressed issue, and then, on the summary tab in the issue auditing view, click unsuppress .
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 90 of 134 user guide chapter 5: auditing analysis results l right-click the issue in the issues view, and then select unsuppress issue.
note: you can select and unsuppress multiple issues at the same time.
submitting an issue as a bug you can submit issues to your bug tracker application if integration between the applications has been configured.
to submit an issue as a bug: 1. select the issue in the issues view, and then, on the summary tab, click file bug .
when you submit a bug for first time, the configure bugtracker integration dialog box opens.
(for information about configuring the plugin with bug tracker applications, see "integrating with a bug tracker application" on page 82.)
select a bug tracker application, and then click select the file bug dialog box opens.
2. specify all required values and review the issue description.
depending on the integration and your bug tracker application, the values include items such as the bug tracker application url, product name, severity level, summary, and version.
3. click submit.
you must already be logged on before you can file a bug through the user interface for bug tracker applications that require a logon.
the issue is submitted as a bug in the bug tracker application.
if you use fortify software security center, you can submit an issue as a bug using a bug tracker application configured through fortify software security center.
to submit an issue as a bug through the fortify software security center: 1. select the issue in the issues view, and then, on the issue summary tab, click the file bug icon.
when you submit a bug for first time, the configure bugtracker integration dialog box opens.
select fortify software security center, and then click ok.
2. specify the values if changes are needed and review the issue description.
depending on the integration and your bug tracker application, the values include items such as the bug tracker application url, product name, severity level, summary, and version.
3. click submit.
if your bug tracker application requires you to log on, you must do so before you can file a bug through that interface.
correlation justification a correlation occurs when an issue uncovered by one analyzer (fortify webinspect agent, fortify static code analyzer, or fortify webinspect) is related directly or indirectly to an issue uncovered by another analyzer.
correlated events help you identify issues that have a higher probability of being exploited.
a vulnerability that is linked to other vulnerabilities might represent an issue that has multiple points of hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 91 of 134 user guide chapter 5: auditing analysis results entry.
for example, if fortify webinspect scan results are correlated with fortify static code analyzer scan results, this increases the likelihood that the associated fortify static code analyzer issues are exploitable.
audit workbench provides additional information to help you resolve these correlated issues and mitigate the risks they present.
in audit workbench, this additional information is presented as correlation justification.
using correlation justification to use correlation justification: 1. in the issues view, select a correlated issue.
a correlated issue is identified in the issues list by a blue sphere on the issue icon, as shown below.
2. in the issues auditing view, click the correlated issues tab.
the issues auditing view lists the other issues that are correlated with the issue you first selected.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 92 of 134 user guide chapter 5: auditing analysis results because you first selected a correlated issue, the view correlations button is available.
3. click view correlations.
the correlation justification dialog box opens and displays the following three panels: l the correlated issues tree on the left displays all correlated issues within a correlated group, sorted based on analyzers.
l the relationship panel at the top right displays the correlation chain between issues.
the chain describes any indirect or direct relationships between the two selected issues.
l the panel at the bottom right describes each correlation rule in the correlation chain displayed hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 93 of 134 user guide chapter 5: auditing analysis results in the relationship panel.
4. to select two issues, press ctrl, and then click each issue.
the relationship panel displays the two issues and their relationships.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 94 of 134 user guide chapter 5:
auditing analysis results 5. to inspect the attributes that correlate the issues, move your cursor to each link in the relationship panel.
6. click ok. use correlation justification to gain insight into code vulnerabilities and understand why certain issues are correlated.
this can help to reduce the time it takes to remediate the issues.
third-party penetration results fortify software includes built-in parsers for the following penetration test (pentest) tools and services: l fortify webinspect l ibm appscan l application security inc. appdetective l white hat hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 95 of 134 user guide chapter 5: auditing analysis results each of these tools and services produces results in an xml file format.
the built-in parsers take in a pentest results file as input and dynamically create fortify issues.
the parsers are automatically invoked when you open up a pentest results file on its own, or in the context of an fpr file.
when you merge a pentest results file into an fpr, the pentest results are persisted in the fpr file during a save.
viewing penetration test results pentest issues have an analyzer attribute equal to pentest, and an analysis type attribute that reflects the tool or service (for instance, fortify webinspect issues have the webinspect analysis type.
you can view these attributes through the standard grouping and search mechanisms.
after you select a pentest issue, audit workbench displays the penetration test details on the pentest details tab.
the following table lists the penetration test details.
pentest detail description path referer method url minus the context and parameters.
referrer header in the request.
either get or post. parameters parameters included in the http query.
cookies cookies included in the http query.
attack type type of pentest attack conducted (url, parameter, header, or cookie).
attack payload part of the request that causes the vulnerability.
trigger part of the response that shows that a vulnerability occurred.
to view the full response, click the question mark icon next to the trigger.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 96 of 134 chapter 6: audit workbench reports audit workbench provides two types of reports: l reports based on the business intelligence and reporting technology (birt) system l legacy reports based on user-configurable report templates this section contains the following topics: birt reports generating birt reports legacy reports and templates 97 98 100 birt reports you can generate birt reports from audit workbench or from the command line.
for information on how to generate birt reports from the command line, see the hpe security fortify static code analyzer user guide.
the following table describes the birt reports available.
report template description cwe/sans top 25 this report details findings related to the cwe/sans top 25 most dangerous programming errors uncovered and provides information about where and how to address the findings.
developer workbook disa stig this report, which is targeted at project managers and developers, contains all of the information needed to understand and fix issues discovered during an audit.
this report addresses disa compliance stig violations it includes information about where and how to fix the issues, and describes the technical risks posed by unremediated violations.
the report also includes an estimate of the effort required to fix, verify, and test the findings.
fisma compliance: fips 200 this report addresses fisma compliance through fips-200 violations detected.
it provides information about where and how to fix the issues and describes the technical risks posed by unremediated violations.
the report also includes an estimate of the effort required to fix, verify, and test the findings.
owasp mobile top 10 this report details the top ten owasp mobile-related findings.
it provides information on where and how to fix specific issues and describes the technical risk posed by the unremediated findings.
the reports also provide estimates of the effort required to fix, verify, and test the findings.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 97 of 134 user guide chapter 6: audit workbench reports report template description owasp top 10 pci dss compliance: application security requirements this report details the top ten owasp-related findings.
it provides information about where and how to fix the issues and describes the technical risks posed by unremediated violations.
the reports also provides estimates of the effort required to fix, verify, and test the findings.
this report summarizes the application security portions of pci dss.
it includes tests for 21 application security-related requirements across sections 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 10 of pci dss and reports whether each requirement is either “in place” or “not in place.”
generating birt reports to generate a birt report: 1. select tools > generate birt report.
the generate report dialog box opens.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 98 of 134 user guide chapter 6: audit workbench reports 2.
from the report template menu, select the type of report you want.
3. 4. select the information to include in the report.
if available for the template, select the template version.
note: not all options are available for all report types.
a. to include description of key terminology in the report, select the key terminology check box.
b. to include the about hpe security products section in the report, select the about hpe security products check box. c. to include detailed descriptions of reported issues, select the detailed report check box.
d. to categorize issues by fortify priority instead of folder names, select the categories by fortify priority check box.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 99 of 134 user guide chapter 6: audit workbench reports 5. to filter information from the report, click issue filter settings.
you can filter the issues as follows: l click removed to include removed issues in the report.
l click suppressed to include suppressed issues in the report.
l click hidden to include hidden issues in the report.
l click collapse issues to collapse issues of the same sink and type into a single issue.
l click only my issues to include only issues assigned to your user name.
l click advanced to build a search query to further filter the issues to include in the report.
for more information about the search modifiers, see "search modifiers" on page 61.
6.
click the format menu to specify the format for the report (pdf, html, doc, or xls).
note: when you open the xls file in excel, you might get a warning that the file format and the file extension do not match.
you can safely open the file in excel.
7. to specify an alternate location to save the report, click browse and select a directory.
8. click generate.
9.
if a report with the same file name already exists, you are prompted to either: l click overwrite to overwrite the existing report.
l click append version number to have the report saved to a file with a sequential number appended to the file name (for example: buildabc cwesanstop25(1).pdf).
legacy reports and templates there are several report templates, which you can either modify to suit your needs, or use as they are.
each report template includes several sections and subsections.
the subsections provide charting and other data collection and presentation options.
for detailed descriptions of the report templates, see "legacy report components" on page 128.
you can generate legacy reports from audit workbench or from the command line.
for information on how to generate legacy reports from the command line, see the hpe security fortify static code analyzer user guide.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 100 of 134 user guide chapter 6: audit workbench reports opening legacy report templates to open a report template: 1. select tools > generate legacy report.
the generate reports dialog box opens.
2. select a report template from the report list.
the generate report dialog box displays the report template settings.
generating legacy reports after you select a report template and specify report settings, you generate the report to view the results.
you can save report results as pdf, rtf, and xml files.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 101 of 134 user guide chapter 6: audit workbench reports to run a report: 1. select tools > generate legacy report.
2. select a report template from the report list.
3. (optional) make changes to the report section settings.
4. click save report.
the save report dialog box opens.
5. make any necessary changes to the report details, including its location and format.
note: if you save the report in rich text format (rtf), you can open the report in an associated application based on the setting of the com.fortify.model.report.targetenv property in the fortify.properties configuration file.
see the hpe security fortify static code analyzer tools properties reference for more information.
6. click save.
the report is generated and saved as a file in the format you selected.
legacy report templates this section describes how to select and edit a legacy report template.
if you or another user have edited or created other default report templates, you might not see the default report templates described in this section.
the legacy report templates include: l fortify developer workbook—a comprehensive list of all categories of issues found and multiple examples of each issue.
this report also gives a high-level summary of the number of issues in each category.
l fortify scan summary—high-level information based on the category of issues that fortify static code analyzer found as well as a project summary and a detailed project summary.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 102 of 134 user guide chapter 6: audit workbench reports l fortify security report—a mid-level report that provides comprehensive information on the analysis performed and the high-level details of the audit that was performed.
it also provides a high- level description and examples of categories that are of the highest priority.
l owasp top ten <year>—high-level summaries of uncovered vulnerabilities organized based on the top ten issues identified by the open web security project (owasp).
you can modify legacy report templates from the generate legacy report dialog box, or you can edit report templates directly in xml (see "report template xml files" on page 106).
the following sections provide information about how to view report templates and customize them to address your reporting needs.
selecting report sections you can choose sections to include in the report, and you can edit the content displayed in each section.
to select sections to include in the report: 1. select each section title check box in the list on the left side.
2. click a section title to view the contents of the section.
the section details are displayed to the right of the dialog box.
for instructions on how to edit each section, see "saving legacy report templates" on page 106.
to remove a section from the report, clear the check box next to the section title.
editing report subsections when you select a section title, you can edit the contents that display in the report.
you can edit text, add or change text variables, or customize the issues shown in a chart or results list.
editing text subsections to edit a text subsection: select the check box next to the subsection title to include this text in the report.
a description of the text displays below the subsection title.
1. click edit text.
the text box displays the text and variables to be included in the report.
2. edit the text and text variables.
3. when you edit text subsections, you can insert variables that are defined when you run the report.
the following table lists the report variables.
variable description $audit_guide_ summary$ $classpath_ listing$ list of filters created by answering audit guide questions jar files used in the scan, one relative path per line hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 103 of 134 user guide chapter 6: audit workbench reports variable description $commandline_ args$
$file_listing$ $filterset_ details$ complete list of command-line options (same format as project summary) list of files scanned, each file in format <relative file path> # lines # kb <timestamp> list of filters in use by current filter set $filterset_name$ name of current filter set $fortify_sca_ version$ fortify static code analyzer version $libdir_listing$ libdirs specified for the scan, one relative path per line $tloc$ total lines of code $number_of_files$ total number of files scanned $project_build_ label$ build label of project $project_name$ build id $properties$ $results_ certification$
$results_
certification_ summary$ $rulepacks$ complete list of properties set for the analysis phase (same format as project summary) complete certification detail with a list of validity on a per file basis (see project summary) short description of certification (same format as project summary) complete list of rulepacks used for the analysis (same format as project summary) $run_info$ content from the project summary runtime analysis tab $scan_computer_ id$ hostname of machine on which the scan was performed $scan_date$ date of analysis with the default format style for the locale $scan_summary$ summary of codebase scanned in format # files, # lines of code $scan_time$ time of analysis phase hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 104 of 134 user guide chapter 6: audit workbench reports variable description $scan_user$ username for the user who performed the scan $source_base_ path$
source base path of codebase $total_findings$ number of findings, not including suppressed or removed issues $warnings$ complete list of warnings that occurred (same format as the project summary) $warning_summary$ number of warnings found in scan editing results list subsections to edit a result list subsection: 1. select the check box next to the subsection title to include this text in the report.
a description of the results list displays below the subsection title.
2. click the issues list heading to expand the options.
3. select the attributes that the results list will be grouped by.
for the list of attributes to group by, see "working with issues" on page 50.
if you group by category, the recommendations, abstract, and explanation for the category are also included in the report.
4. you can refine the issues shown in this subsection with the search functions.
for more details on the search syntax, see "searching for issues" on page 60.
the refine issues in subsection field displays the query.
5. select or clear the limit number of issues in each group check box.
6. if you selected the check box, type the number of issues to display per group.
editing charts subsections to edit a chart subsection: 1. select the check box next to the subsection title to include this text in the report.
a chart description is displayed below the subsection title.
2. select the attributes that the chart data will be grouped by.
for the list of attributes to group by, see "working with issues" on page 50.
3. you can refine the issues shown in this subsection by using the search functions.
for more details on the search syntax, see "searching for issues" on page 60.
the query is displayed in the refine issues in subsection field.
4. select the chart type (table, bar, or pie) to display.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 105 of 134 user guide chapter 6: audit workbench reports saving legacy report templates you can save the current report settings as a new template that you can select later to run more reports.
to save settings as a report template: 1. select tools > generate legacy report.
the generate report dialog box opens.
2. select the report template from the report list.
3. make changes to the report section and subsection settings.
4. click save as new template.
the new report template is saved.
when you select the report template name from the report list, the report settings are displayed in the generate report dialog box.
saving changes to report templates you can save changes to a report template so that your new settings are displayed as the defaults for that template.
to save changes a report template: 1. select tools > generate legacy report.
the generate report dialog box opens.
2. select the report template to save as the default report template from the report list.
3. (optional) make changes to the report section and subsection settings.
4. click save settings as default.
report template xml files report templates are saved as xml files.
you can edit the xml files to make changes or to create new report template files.
when you edit the xml files, you can choose the sections and the contents of each section to include in the report template.
the default location for report template xml files is: <sca_install_dir>/core/config/reports you can also customize the logos used in the reports by specifying paths or replacing header.png and footer.png in this directory.
adding report sections you can add report sections by editing the xml files.
in the structure of the xml, the reportsection tag defines a new section.
it includes a title tag for the section name, and it must include at least one subsection tag to define the contents of the section in the report.
the following xml is the results outline section of the fortify security report: hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 106 of 134 user guide chapter 6: audit workbench reports <reportsection enabled="false" optionalsubsections="true"> <title>results outline</title> <subsection enabled="true"> <title>overall number of results</title> <description>results count</description> <text>the scan found $total_findings$ issues.</text> </subsection> <subsection enabled="true"> <title>vulnerability examples by category</title> <description>results summary of the highest severity issues.
vulnerability examples are provided by category.</description> <issuelisting limit="1" listing="true"> <refinement>severity:(3.0,5.0] confidence:[4.0,5.0]</refinement> <chart charttype="list"> <axis>category</axis> </chart> </issuelisting> </subsection>
</reportsection> in the previous example, the results outline section contains two subsections.
the first subsection is a text subsection named overall number of results.
the section subsection is a results list named vulnerability examples by category.
a section can contain any combination of subsections as its contents.
adding text subsections in a text subsection, you can include the title tag, the description tag, and the text tag.
in the text tag, you can provide the default content, although you can edit the content before you generate a report.
for a description of the text variables available to use in text subsections, see "editing report subsections" on page 103.
the following xml is the overall number of results subsection in the results outline section: <subsection enabled="true"> <title>overall number of results</title> <description>results count</description> <text>the scan found $total_findings$ issues.</text> </subsection> in this example, the text subsection is titled overall number of results.
the description text to describe the purpose of the text is results count.
the text in the text field that the user can edit before running a report uses one variable named $total_findings$. hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 107 of 134 user guide chapter 6: audit workbench reports adding results list subsections in a results list subsection, you can include the title tag, the description tag, and the issuelisting tag.
in the issuelisting tag, you can define the default content for the limit and set listing to true.
you can include the refinement tag either with or without a default statement, although you can edit the content before you generate a report.
to generate a results list, the chart tag attribute charttype is set to list.
you can also define the axis tag.
the following xml is the vulnerabilities examples by category subsection in the results outline section: <subsection enabled="true"> <title>vulnerability examples by category</title> <description>results summary of the highest severity issues.
vulnerability examples are provided by category.
</description> <issuelisting limit="1" listing="true"> <refinement>severity:(3.0,5.0] confidence:[4.0,5.0]</refinement> <chart charttype="list"> <axis>category</axis> </chart> </issuelisting> </subsection> in this example, the results list subsection is titled vulnerability examples by category.
the description text to describe the purpose of the subsection is results summary of the highest severity issues.
vulnerability examples are provided by category.
this subsection lists (listing=true) one issue (limit="1") per category (the axis tag value) where there are issues that match the statement severity:(3.0,5.0] confidence:[4.0,5.0] (the value of the refinement tag).
adding charts subsections in a chart subsection, you can include the title tag, the description tag, and the issuelisting tag.
in the issuelisting tag, you can define the default content for the limit and set listing to false.
you can include the refinement tag either with or without a default statement, although you can edit the content before generating a report.
to generate a pie chart, the chart tag attribute charttype is set to pie.
the options are table, pie, and bar.
you can change this setting before you generate the report.
you can also define the axis tag.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 108 of 134 user guide chapter 6: audit workbench reports the following code shows an example of a charts subsection: <subsection enabled="true"> <title>new issues</title> <description>a list of issues discovered since the previous analysis</description> <text>the following issues have been discovered since the last scan:</text> <issuelisting limit="-1" listing="false"> <refinement /> <chart charttype="pie">
<axis>new issue</axis> </chart> </issuelisting>
</subsection> in this subsection, a chart (limit="-1" listing="false") has the title new issues and a text section that contains the text the following issues have been discovered since the last scan.
this chart includes all issues (the refinement tag is empty) and groups the issues on the value of new issues (the value of the axis tag).
this chart is displayed as a pie chart (charttype="pie").
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 109 of 134 chapter 7: using the functions view fortify static code analyzer identifies all functions declared or called in your source code.
you can use the functions view in audit workbench to determine where a function is located in the source code, whether the function was covered by a security rule, and which rule ids matched the function.
you can also list the functions that fortify static code analyzer identified as tainted source and view only the functions not covered by rules applied in the most recent scan.
this section contains the following topics: opening the functions view sorting and viewing functions locating functions in source code synchronizing the functions view with the analysis evidence view locating classes in source code determining which rules matched a function writing rules for functions creating custom cleanse rules 111 112 112 112 113 113 113 114 hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 110 of 134 user guide chapter 7: using the functions view opening the functions view to open the functions view: 1. select options > show view > functions.
audit workbench displays the functions view in the top-right.
2. to view coverage information about top-level (global) functions, expand the top-level functions node.
3. to view descriptions of the icons displayed to the left of each function, click legend.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 111 of 134 user guide chapter 7: using the functions view sorting and viewing functions to change the order of, or to hide or show functions: 1. open the functions view.
2. from the show list, select one of the following: l to display all functions, select all.
l to display functions not covered by rules, select not covered by rules.
l to display functions that are identified as a source of tainted data by the rulepack used in the most recent scan, select taint sources.
3. from the group by list, select one of the following sorting methods: l to sort functions based on package, select package.
l to sort listed functions by class, select class.
l to sort listed functions alphabetically, select function.
audit workbench updates the functions view.
locating functions in source code from the functions view, you can list the file name and line number where the function appears in the source code.
to show where a function is located in code: 1. in the functions view, right-click a function, and then select find usages.
the search view (at center bottom) lists the file locations and line numbers in which the function is used.
2. to jump to a line of code where the function is used, click the corresponding row in the search view.
synchronizing the functions view with the analysis evidence view you can synchronize the functions view with the analysis evidence view so that, after you select an issue or a trace node from the analysis evidence view, the functions view automatically displays the class that contains the selected item of evidence.
this makes it easy for you to inspect other methods in that class, other classes in that package, and so on.
to synchronize the functions view with the analysis evidence view: 1. 2.
in the functions view, from the group by list, select class.
in the top-right corner of the analysis evidence view, click the synchronize with functions hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 112 of 134 user guide chapter 7: using the functions view icon.
view the functions view displays the class that contains the item you selected in the analysis evidence view.
the synchronize with function view toggles synchronization.
to turn off synchronization, click synchronize with functions view again.
locating classes in source code to see where classes are used in the source code: 1. in the functions view, right-click a class the search view (at center bottom) lists the file locations and line numbers in which the class is used.
, and then select find usages.
2. to jump to a line of code where the class is used, click the corresponding row in the search view.
for functions defined in the source code, you can open the declaration in the source view by right- clicking on a function and selecting open declaration.
the source code is displayed with the line highlighted.
alternatively, you can double-click functions to display the declaration.
determining which rules matched a function you can display the rule id for all the rules that matched a function.
when rules match a function, a green circle icon displays next to it.
fortify static code analyzer can match a rule to functions without finding an issue related to the rule.
for example, a tainted data source rule matches the source function but the tainted data entering at that function does not reach a sink.
note: to use the rule id to locate related issues, see "searching for issues" on page 60, or create visibility or folder filters.
to display the rule ids: 1. open a project in audit workbench.
2. open the functions view.
3. right-click a function, and then select show matched rules.
the search view (at center bottom) lists the rule ids with the vulnerability category name (if applicable) and the rulepack file name.
writing rules for functions you can launch the custom rules wizard from the functions view.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 113 of 134 user guide chapter 7: using the functions view to write a rule for a function: 1. open a project in audit workbench.
2. open the functions view.
3. to create a rule: a. right-click a function, and then select generate rule for function.
the custom rule wizard opens.
b. select the rule that best matches the behavior or vulnerability category.
c. enter the information as directed by the wizard, and save the new rule to a custom rulepack.
4. to re-scan the translated files with the custom rulepack: in the left panel, select security content management.
a. select options > options.
b. c. click import custom security content.
d. browse to and select the custom rulepack, and then click open.
e. click ok to close the options dialog box.
f. click scan.
after the scan is completed, the project is updated.
5. click ok. 6. to verify that the rule matched the function: a. right-click the function, and then select show matched rules.
b. verify that at least one rule id matches the id of the rule you created.
the function is now covered by a custom rulepack and is displayed with a green circle next to it.
creating custom cleanse rules you can create custom cleanse rules for specific functions from audit workbench.
to create a cleanse rule for a function: 1. right-click the function, and then select generate rule for function.
2. the custom rule wizard opens.
in the templates list, expand the dataflowcleanserule folder, and then select generic validation rule.
3. click next.
4. on the rule language step, select the source code language, and then click next.
5. on the validation function information step, type the regular expressions for the package, class, and function.
6. verify that the information is correct, and then click next.
7. select the argument to cleanse, and then click next.
8. select the rulepack to which you want to add the rule, and then click finish.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 114 of 134 chapter 8: troubleshooting the following topics provide information on how to troubleshoot problems you might encounter working with audit workbench and how to report an issue to hpe security fortify technical support.
this section contains the following topics: creating archive logs for hpe security fortify technical support using the debugging option addressing the org.eclipse.swt.swterror error out of memory errors specifying the amount of memory used by external processes saving a project that exceeds the maximum removed issues limit resetting the default views 115 115 116 116 117 118 118 creating archive logs for hpe security fortify technical support you can have audit workbench create an archive file that you can later send to hpe security fortify technical support to help resolve any support issues that might arise.
the file includes your audit workbench logs and system properties.
to create an archive of your audit workbench logs and system properties: in the audit workbench menu bar, select help > contact hpe security fortify support.
in the create hpe security fortify support archive?
dialog box, click yes.
1. 2. 3. navigate to the folder where you want to save the archive file.
4. accept the default file name displayed in the file name box, or change it.
5. click save.
the save successful dialog box opens.
6. to contact hpe security fortify technical support and supply the archive file, follow the instructions provided in the save successful dialog box.
7. click ok.
using the debugging option if you encounter errors, you can enable the debugging option to help troubleshoot.
to enable debugging: 1. navigate to the <sca_install_dir>/core/config directory and open the fortify.properties file.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 115 of 134 user guide chapter 8: troubleshooting 2.
you can either enable debug mode for all fortify software security center components or for specific components.
remove the comment tag (#) from in front of the property and set the value to true.
property description com.fortify.debug if set to true, all the fortify software security center components run in debug mode.
com.fortify.awb.debug if set to true, audit workbench runs in debug mode.
com.fortify.eclipse.debug if set to true, the eclipse complete plugin runs in debug mode. com.fortify.vs.debug
if set to true, fortify package for visual studio runs in debug mode.
for help diagnosing the problem, send the log files to hpe security fortify technical support.
on windows systems, log files are located in the following directories: l c:\users\<username>\appdata\local\fortify\sca<version>\log l c:\users\<username>\appdata\local\fortify\awb-<version>\log l c:\users\<username>\appdata\local\fortify\awb-<version>\.metadata on linux and unix systems, log files are located in one of the following directories: l <userhome>/.fortify/sca<version>/log l <userhome>/.fortify/awb-<version>/log l <userhome>/.fortify/awb-<version>/.metadata addressing the org.eclipse.swt.swterror error on unix systems, audit workbench can fail to start, resulting in the following error: org.eclipse.swt.swterror: no more handles [gtk_init_check() failed] if you see this error, check to make sure that x11 is configured correctly and that your display variable is set.
out of memory errors the following two scenarios can trigger out-of-memory errors in audit workbench.
scenario for more information... opening or auditing a large and complex fpr file "allocating more memory for audit workbench" on the next page hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 116 of 134 user guide chapter 8: troubleshooting scenario for more information... running a scan on a very large and complex project "allocating more memory for fortify static code analyzer" below as a guideline, assuming no other memory-intensive processes are running, do not allocate more than two thirds of the available system memory.
allocating more memory for audit workbench to increase the memory allocated for audit workbench, set the environment variable awb_vm_opts.
(for example, set awb_vm_opts=-xmx4g to allocate 4 gb to audit workbench.)
if you choose to set awb_vm_opts, do not allocate more memory than is physically available.
overallocation degrades performance.
in audit workbench, issue information is persisted to disk.
this persisted information is reloaded on demand and thereby decreases the required memory footprint of audit workbench.
to prevent out-of-memory errors, you can set a value in the fortify.properties file to take advantage of the information persisted to disk functionality.
set the value as follows: com.fortify.model.persistdatatodisk = true allocating more memory for fortify static code analyzer to increase the memory allocated for fortify static code analyzer, do one of the following: l in the advanced static analysis wizard, increase the amount of memory fortify static code analyzer uses for scanning.
this passes the memory allocation option to fortify static code analyzer.
this method does not require restarting audit workbench.
see "scanning large and complex projects" on page 22.
l before your start audit workbench, set the environment variable sca_vm_opts.
for example, to allocate 32 gb to fortify static code analyzer, set the variable to -xmx32g. note: if you choose to set sca_vm_opts, do not allocate more memory than is physically available.
overallocation degrades performance.
specifying the amount of memory used by external processes you can specify how much memory external processes such as the instance id migrator (iidmigrator) use by specifying the com.fortify.model.execmemorysetting setting in the fortify.properties file.
the default setting is as follows: com.fortify.model.execmemorysetting=600 hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 117 of 134 user guide chapter 8: troubleshooting the value for this setting, which is expressed in mb, is used to specify the maximum heap size.
in this case, 600 equates to -xmx600m. saving a project that exceeds the maximum removed issues limit when you save a project that has more than the maximum number of removed issues, audit workbench displays following warning message: your project contains more than <removedissueslimit> removed issues.
would you like to persist them all, or limit the number to <removedissueslimit>?
if you limit the number, audited removed issues will take precedence of unaudited ones.
choose limit to limit the number of issues to the maximum or save all to save all the removed issues.
the maximum number of removed issues <removedissueslimit> is controlled by the com.fortify.removedissuepersistancelimit property.
see hpe security fortify static code analyzer tools properties reference for more information.
to configure how audit workbench handles this issue for future occurrences: 1. select options > options.
2. 3.
under save audit project options, specify one of the following configuration settings: in the left panel, select audit configuration.
l limit removed issues to the maximum number l save all removed issues every time l prompt me next time 4. click ok.
resetting the default views if you have closed or moved views, such as the issues view or the summary tab, you can reset the user interface to restore the views to the default state.
to reset the user interface to the default state: 1. select options > options.
2. 3. on the appearance tab, click reset interface.
in the left panel, click audit configuration.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 118 of 134 appendix a: sample files your fortify sca and applications installation might include several code samples that you can use when learning to use fortify static code analyzer.
if you installed the samples, they are located in the following directory:
<sca_install_dir>/samples the samples directory contains two subdirectories: basic and advanced.
each code sample includes a readme.txt file that provides instructions on how to scan the code in fortify static code analyzer and view the output in audit workbench.
the basic subdirectory includes an assortment of simple language-specific code samples.
the advanced subdirectory contains more advanced samples including source code to help you integrate fortify static code analyzer with your bug tracker applications.
this section contains the following topics: basic samples advanced samples 119 120 basic samples the following table describes the sample files in the <sca_install_dir>/samples/basic directory and provides a list of the vulnerabilities that the samples demonstrate.
many of the samples includes a readme.txt file that provides details and instructions on its use.
folder name description cpp a c++ sample file and instructions to analyze code that has a simple dataflow vulnerability.
it requires a gcc or cl compiler.
vulnerabilities command injection memory leak database eightball a database.pks sample file.
this sql sample includes issues in sql code.
access control: database a java application (eightball.java) that exhibits bad error handling.
it requires an integer as an argument.
if you supply a file name instead of an integer, it displays the file contents.
path manipulation unreleased resource: streams j2ee bad practices: leftover debug code hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 119 of 134 user guide appendix a: sample files folder name description formatstring the formatstring.c file.
it requires a gcc or cl compiler.
javascript the sample.js javascript file.
nullpointer the nullpointersample.java file.
php two php files: sink.php and source.php.
analyzing source.php reveals simple dataflow vulnerabilities and a dangerous function.
sampleoutput a sample output file (webgoat5.0.fpr) from the webgoat project located in the samples/advanced/webgoat directory.
stackbuffer the stackbuffer.c file.
it requires a gcc or cl compiler.
toctou the toctou.c file.
vb6 the command-injection.bas file.
vbscript the source.asp and sink.asp files.
vulnerabilities format string cross site scripting (xss) open redirect null dereference cross site scripting sql injection buffer overflow time-of- check/time-of- use (race condition) command injection sql injection sql injection advanced samples the following table describes the sample files in the <sca_install_dir>/samples/advanced directory.
many of the samples include a readme.txt file that provides further details and instructions on its use.
folder name description bugtrackerplugin <bugtracker> includes source code for the supported bug tracker plugin.
c++ a sample solution for different supported versions of visual studio.
to use this sample, you must have the following installed: l a supported version of visual studio visual c/c++ l fortify static code analyzer and the package for your visual studio version hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 120 of 134 user guide appendix a: sample files folder name description configuration crosstier csharp customrules ejb filters findbugs java1.5 the code includes a command injection issue and an unchecked return value issue.
a sample java ee application that has vulnerabilities in its web module deployment descriptor web.xml.
a sample that has vulnerabilities that span multiple application technologies (java, pl/sql, jsp, struts).
the output contains several issues of different types, including two access control vulnerabilities.
one of these is a cross-tier result.
it has a dataflow trace from user input in java code that can affect a select statement in pl/sql.
a simple c# program that has sql injection vulnerabilities.
versions are included for different supported versions of visual studio.
after successful completion of the scan, you should see the sql injection vulnerabilities and one unreleased resource vulnerability.
other categories might also be present, depending on the rulepacks used in the scan.
several simple source code samples and rulepack files that illustrate how four different analyzers: semantic, dataflow, control flow, and configuration interpret rules.
this folder also includes several miscellaneous samples of real- world rules that you can use to scan real applications.
a sample java ee cross-tier application with servlets and ejb.
a sample that uses the fortify software security center -filter option.
a sample that demonstrates how to run the findbugs static analysis tool (http://findbugs.sourceforge.net) together with fortify static code analyzer and filter out results that overlap.
a sample java file: resourceinjection.java.
the result file should include a path manipulation and a j2ee bad practices vulnerability.
javaannotations a sample application that illustrates problems that might arise from its use and how to fix the problems using the fortify java annotations.
this example illustrates how the use of fortify annotations can result in increased accuracy in the reported vulnerabilities.
the accompanying java annotations sample.txt file describes the potential problems and solutions associated with vulnerability results.
javadoc directory for the public-api and wsclient.
a java ee 1.4 sample web application with various known security vulnerabilities including cross-site scripting, sql injection, and command injection.
a .net 4.0 sample web application with various known security vulnerabilities including cross-site scripting, sql injection, and command injection.
javadoc riches.java riches.net hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 121 of 134 user guide appendix a: sample files folder name description webgoat the webgoat java ee web application provided by the open web application security project (https://www.owasp.org).
this directory contains the webgoat 5.0 source code.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 122 of 134 appendix b: static analysis results prioritization the following topics describe how fortify static code analyzer automatically prioritizes the scan results displayed in audit workbench.
this section contains the following topics: about results prioritization quantifying risk estimating impact and likelihood with input from rules and analysis 123 124 125 about results prioritization fortify static code analyzer divides static analysis findings into four risk quadrants: critical, high, medium, and low.
membership in each quadrant depends on whether the finding has a high or low impact and high or low likelihood of occurring.
when fortify static code analyzer produces a results file, automated processing and human review can convert issues into findings.
findings, which represent specific problems with the codebase, sometimes map one-to-one with issues.
however, in other cases, multiple related issues might be combined into a single finding.
for example, every form that submits a request without including a unique token might produce an issue related to cross-site request forgery (csrf), but these issues are more useful when they are combined into a single finding that indicates the application as a whole is vulnerable to csrf attacks.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 123 of 134 user guide appendix b: static analysis results prioritization on occasion, the static analysis process goes wrong.
depending on the rules and the analysis algorithms used, a static analysis can produce false positives (reported vulnerabilities where no vulnerabilities exist) or false negatives (unreported vulnerabilities) or both.
quantifying risk because it is not possible to determine if or when an organization will suffer consequences related to a particular vulnerability, fortify static code analyzer takes a probabilistic approach to prioritizing vulnerabilities.
risk is defined quantitatively, as follows: risk = impact x likelihood the risk that a vulnerability poses is equal to the impact of the vulnerability multiplied by the likelihood that the impact will occur.
impact is defined as the negative outcome resulting from a vulnerability and likelihood as the probability that the impact will happen.
impact can come in many forms.
for example, an organization might lose money or reputation because of a successful attack, or it might lose business opportunity because the presence of a vulnerability causes a system to fail a regulatory compliance check.
two factors contribute to the likelihood that a particular vulnerability will cause harm: l the probability that the vulnerability will be discovered (by an attacker or an auditor)
l the conditional probability that, once found, the vulnerability will be exploited these probabilities change as the computer security field advances.
new vulnerability assessment techniques make it easier to find vulnerabilities, and new attack techniques increase the set of vulnerabilities that can be exploited.
progressively better vulnerability prevention, mitigation, and recovery strategies help counterbalance these advances.
for example, consider race condition: singleton member field vulnerabilities, which occur when code assigns a value associated with a particular user session to a member variable of a singleton object in a web application.
since, under the singleton model, the same class instance is used to service all requests, values from one user session can spill over into another user’s session.
the following code demonstrates a singleton member field race condition: public class guestbook extends httpservlet { string name, password; protected void dopost (httpservletrequest request, httpservletresponse response) { name = request.getparameter("username"); password = request.getparameter("password"); if (dbutils.lookupuser(username, password)) { accesssensitiveresources(); } } } hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 124 of 134 user guide appendix b: static analysis results prioritization although this vulnerability is fairly simple to exploit after it is found, finding race conditions can be difficult because successful attacks often depend on very precise timing.
therefore, this class of vulnerability has a low likelihood of occurring, which primarily reflects the difficulty involved in finding the vulnerability.
for an example of a vulnerability whose likelihood is primarily governed by how difficult it is to exploit, consider http header manipulation, which occurs when unvalidated user input is included in an http response header and can enable cross-site scripting, http response splitting, and cache poisoning, among other attacks.
the following code demonstrates a header manipulation vulnerability: string author = request.getparameter(author_param); cookie cookie = new cookie("author", author); cookie.setmaxage(cookieexpiration); response.addcookie(cookie); in this case, identifying a vulnerable application is often quite simple because the vulnerability is evident in web traffic returned from the server.
crafting a meaningful exploit, however, typically involves a deep understanding of the application’s business logic, ready access to a pool of legitimate users, and in some cases, a working knowledge of the network topography between the server and the users.
therefore, this class of vulnerability has a low likelihood because it is difficult to exploit.
estimating impact and likelihood with input from rules and analysis fortify static code analyzer estimates the impact of a discovered vulnerability based on its type.
the impact value is associated with the static analysis rule that defines the vulnerability.
in this way, results can indicate that a category such as cross-site scripting has a higher impact than a category such as null pointer dereference.
to compute the likelihood portion of the risk equation, fortify static code analyzer draws on values from the rules used for analysis, the analysis process itself, and from a human auditor (if an individual has reviewed the results.)
the likelihood of a finding is computed by combining the accuracy of the rule and the confidence in the analysis with the probability that the vulnerability will be discovered and acted upon, as follows: likelihood = accuracy x confidence x probability for the purpose of weighing static analysis results, an accuracy measure is associated with each rule applied by the analysis engine.
this number represents the possibility that the rule will correctly identify a vulnerability.
for example, the rule that fortify static code analyzer uses to identify the member field race condition has a high accuracy because it precisely identifies assignments to a member field of a singleton object.
conversely, the rule used to identify cross-site request forgery has a low accuracy because it identifies potentially vulnerable form submissions and relies on a human auditor to determine whether the form submissions are susceptible to cross-site request forgery.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 125 of 134 user guide appendix b: static analysis results prioritization during static analysis, fortify static code analyzer might have to make assumptions about the way the code behaves at runtime.
the more assumptions fortify static code analyzer makes, the more likely it is that a result is incorrect.
the term confidence is used to estimate the possibility that fortify static code analyzer correctly applies the rule.
for example, fortify static code analyzer reports reflected cross-site scripting vulnerabilities in a jsp where data from a request parameter is echoed directly to the page with high confidence.
conversely, fortify static code analyzer reports a persistent cross-site scripting issue where data read from a database into a class selected at runtime using dependency injection is rendered in the presentation tier with low confidence.
to represent the probability that the vulnerability is discovered and acted upon (with action potentially coming the form of an exploit), fortify static code analyzer associates a probability measure with each category of vulnerability identified by the rules.
for example, cross-site scripting vulnerabilities carry a higher probability than member field race conditions because they are more likely to be discovered and exploited.
from a programmer’s perspective, some bugs are harder to fix than others.
modifying a single line of code in a self-contained method is easier than modifying the result of a sequence of calls that span the program.
the term remediation effort describes the relative amount of effort required to fix and verify a finding.
fortify static code analyzer provides a remediation effort with each finding it reports.
for example, member field race conditions have a small remediation effort, while cross-site request forgery, which often involves major changes to a website, has a high remediation effort.
to avoid implying too much precision where little exists, fortify static code analyzer limits values of impact, accuracy, confidence, and probability to a decimal range of from 0.1 to 5.0 and scales the calculated likelihood value to the same range.
it then defines high values for impact and likelihood as those at 2.5 and above [2.5,5.0] and low values as those below 2.5 (0,2.5).
fortify static code analyzer does not provide units for remediation effort because the absolute cost of remediating different vulnerabilities differs from one organization to another.
instead, remediation effort estimates the relative cost to remediate one kind of finding versus another, thereby enabling a comparison of the effort required to remediate different vulnerabilities or vulnerabilities across more than one project.
the following table provides sample impact, accuracy, confidence, and probability values for the four vulnerabilities mentioned in this section along with the resulting risk calculations and corresponding remediation effort for each vulnerability category.
category impact accuracy confidence probability risk race condition: 4 singleton member field cross-site request forgery 2 5 1 5 5 3 2 impact = 4 (high) likelihood = (5 · 5 · 3)/25 = 3 (high) risk = critical estimated remediation effort = 5 impact = 2 (low) likelihood = (1 · 5 ·
2)/25 = hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 126 of 134 user guide appendix b: static analysis results prioritization category impact accuracy confidence probability risk cross-site scripting: reflected 5 cross-site scripting: persistent 5 5 5 5 1 5 5 <1 (low) risk = low estimated remediation effort = 12 impact = 5 (high) likelihood = (5 · 5 · 5)/25 = 5 (high) risk = critical estimated remediation effort = 1 impact = 5 (high) likelihood = (5 · 1 ·
5)/25 = 1 (low) risk = medium estimated remediation effort= 1 hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 127 of 134 appendix c: legacy report components the following sections provide information about the content and organization of the legacy report templates, which you can either modify or use as provided.
each report template includes several sections and subsections.
the subsections provide charting and other data collection and presentation options.
this section contains the following topics: fortify security report fortify developer workbook report owasp top ten reports fortify scan summary report 128 131 132 132 fortify security report the fortify security report is a high-level report that includes comprehensive analysis information and high-level details of the corresponding audit.
this report also includes a high-level description and examples of the categories that have the highest priority.
the following table lists fortify security report sections and their corresponding subsections.
section executive summary presents an overview of the scan.
this includes an overview of issues, an overview of issues by fortify priority order, and recommendations for issue remediation.
this section is designed for management and project managers.
subsection issues overview editable overview of the issues, including the date of the scan, number of issues, name of the project, scan summary and total number of findings.
issue summary by fortify priority order issues are categorized into the following four risk quadrants based on whether they have a high or low impact, and high or low likelihood of being exploited: l critical - high impact and high likelihood.
critical issues are easy for the attacker to discover and exploit to result in extensive asset damage.
l high - high impact but low likelihood.
high priority issues are often difficult to discover and exploit, but can result in extensive asset damage.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 128 of 134 user guide appendix c: legacy report components section subsection l medium - low impact but high likelihood.
medium priority issues are easy to discover and exploit, but often result in little asset damage.
l low - low impact and low likelihood.
low priority issues are difficult to discover and exploit and typically result in little asset damage.
you can present this information in a table or in a pie or bar chart.
recommendations and conclusions high-level recommendation on remediating the issues listed in the issues summary subsection.
you can edit the text in this subsection.
project summary code-base summary provides project summary information such as the codebase, scan information, results certifications, and so on.
summary of the analyzed codebase.
you can edit the text element of this subsection.
scan information analysis details.
you can edit the text element of this subsection.
results certification results certifications summary.
you can edit the text element of this subsection.
attack surface attack surface summary.
you can edit the text element of this subsection.
filter set summary summary of the filter set used in the report.
you can edit the text element of this subsection.
audit guide summary summary of the audit guide.
you can edit the text element of this subsection.
overall number of results results outline hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 129 of 134 user guide appendix c: legacy report components section subsection provides an outline of the results that fortify static code analyzer produced during the scan.
detailed project summary provides a detailed project summary.
total number of results that fortify static code analyzer produced during the scan.
you can edit the text element of this subsection.
vulnerability examples by category results summary of highest-level issues by category.
files scanned list of all scanned files.
you can edit the text element of this subsection.
reference elements list of all libraries that fortify static code analyzer used during the translation phase of analysis.
you can edit the text element of this subsection.
rulepacks list of rulepacks that fortify static code analyzer used in the analysis.
you can edit the text element of this subsection.
properties list of properties that fortify static code analyzer set during the analysis phase.
you can edit the text element of this subsection.
commandline arguments list of all options that fortify static code analyzer uses during the translation phase of analysis.
you can edit the text element of this subsection.
warnings list of all warnings issued during both translation and analysis phases of the scan.
you can edit the text element of this subsection.
issue count by category issues by category provides a chart of issues by category.
this chart is chart of issues by category.
you can hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 130 of 134 user guide appendix c: legacy report components section configurable.
subsection present the information in a table or as a pie or bar chart.
issue breakdown by analysis issue by analysis provides a chart of issues by analysis.
this chart is configurable.
new issues provides a chart of all new issues.
this chart is configurable.
chart of issues by analysis.
you can present the information in a table or as a pie or bar chart.
new issue chart of new issues.
you can present the information in a table or as a pie or bar chart.
fortify developer workbook report the fortify developer workbook report provides a high-level summary of the vulnerabilities detected during a scan.
this includes a report summary and an issue summary by fortify priority order.
this report is designed for developers.
the following table lists fortify developer workbook report sections and their corresponding subsections.
section report overview subsection report summary provides a high-level overview of report findings.
editable overview of vulnerability.
this includes the date of the scan, the project name, and the total number of vulnerabilities.
issue summary by fortify priority order issues charted based on fortify priority order.
you can present the information in a table or as a pie or bar chart.
issue summary overall number of results provides the number and categories of vulnerabilities.
total number of vulnerabilities.
you can edit the text element of this subsection.
issues by category chart of issues based on category.
you can present the information in a table or as a pie or bar chart.
results outline vulnerability examples by category provides an outline of the results that fortify static code analyzer produced during the scan.
results summary of highest-level issues by category.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 131 of 134 user guide appendix c: legacy report components owasp top ten reports the owasp top ten reports provide high-level summaries of uncovered vulnerabilities organized based on the top ten issues identified by the open web security project (owasp) for years 2004, 2007, 2010, and 2013.
these reports include the sections and subsections described in the following table.
section subsection report overview report summary provides a high-level overview of report findings.
editable overview of vulnerabilities, including the date of the scan, the project name, and the total number of vulnerabilities.
issue summary chart of issues grouped by a selected attribute such as category, kingdom, or analysis type.
you can present the information in a table or as a pie chart or bar chart.
issue breakdown by owasp top ten chart of issues grouped by a selected attribute such as category, kingdom, or analysis type.
you can present the information in a table or as a pie chart or bar chart.
issue breakdown by owasp top ten provides a chart of issues organized by owasp top ten security risks.
results outline vulnerability examples by owasp top ten provides an outline of the results that fortify static code analyzer produced during the scan.
lists the vulnerabilities organized by the owasp top ten.
you can use select listing to further refine and organize the vulnerabilities that audit workbench provides in the report.
fortify scan summary report the fortify scan summary report type provides high-level information based on the category of issues that fortify static code analyzer found as well as a project summary and a detailed project summary.
the following table provides descriptions of the report sections and subsections.
section subsection issue count by category issues by category provides a chart of issues by category.
chart of issues grouped by a selected attribute such as category, kingdom, or analysis type.
you can present the information in a table or as a pie chart or bar chart.
project summary code base summary summary of the codebase that fortify static code analyzer hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 132 of 134 user guide appendix c: legacy report components section subsection provides project summary information, including codebase summary and general scan information.
scanned, including the location of the code, the number of files, lines of code, and the build label.
you can edit the text element of this subsection.
scan information scan information, including the fortify static code analyzer version, machine name, and the name of the user who ran the scan.
you can edit the text element of this subsection.
results certification results certifications information, including the results certification summary and the details of the results certification.
you can edit the text element of this subsection.
detailed project summary files scanned provides detailed project summary information including the files scanned, reference elements, and so on.
lists all files fortify static code analyzer scanned.
you can edit the text element of this subsection.
reference elements list of libraries that fortify static code analyzer used during the translation phase.
you can edit the text element of this subsection.
rulepacks list of rulepacks that fortify static code analyzer used during the analysis.
you can edit the text element of this subsection.
properties lists the properties that fortify static code analyzer set during the analysis.
you can edit the text element of this subsection.
commandline arguments lists the arguments that the program passed to fortify static code analyzer during analysis.
you can edit the text element of this subsection.
warnings lists the warnings that occurred during analysis.
you can edit the text element of this subsection.
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 133 of 134 send documentation feedback if you have comments about this document, you can contact the documentation team by email.
if an email client is configured on this computer, click the link above and an email window opens with the following information in the subject line: feedback on user guide (hpe security fortify audit workbench 17.20)
just add your feedback to the email and click send.
if no email client is available, copy the information above to a new message in a web mail client, and send your feedback to fortifydocteam@hpe.com.
we appreciate your feedback!
hpe security fortify audit workbench (17.20) page 134 of 134
desktop analytics solution guide release: nice advanced process automation 7.0 document revision: 7.0-a1 distribution status: published publication date: february 2019 proprietary and confidential information information herein is proprietary information and trade secrets of nice ltd. and/or its affiliated companies (affiliates).
this document and the information herein is the exclusive property of nice and its affiliates and shall not be disclosed, in whole or in part, to any third party or utilized for any purpose other than the express purpose for which it has been provided.
important notice subject always to any existing terms and conditions agreed between you and nice or any affiliate with respect to the products which are the subject matter of this document, neither nice nor any of its affiliates shall bear any responsibility or liability to a client or to any person or entity with respect to liability, loss or damage caused or alleged to be caused directly or indirectly by any product supplied or any reliance placed on the content of this document.
this includes, but is not limited to, any interruption of service, loss of business or anticipatory profits or consequential damage resulting from the use or operation of any products supplied or the content of this document.
information in this document is subject to change without notice and does not represent a commitment on the part of nice or any affiliate.
all information included in this document, such as text, graphics, photos, logos and images, is the exclusive property of nice or in affiliate and is protected by united states and international copyright laws.
permission is granted to use, view and photocopy (or print) materials from this document only in connection with the products to which this document relates and subject to the terms of license applicable to such products.
any other use, copying, distribution, retransmission or modification of the information in this document without the express prior written permission of nice or an affiliate is strictly prohibited.
in the event of any permitted copying, redistribution or publication of copyrighted material, no changes in, or deletion of, author attribution, trademark legend or copyright notice shall be made.
products supplied may be protected by one or more of the us patents listed at www.nice.com/patents.
for the full list of trademarks of nice and its affiliates, visit www.nice.com/nice-trademarks.
all other marks used are the property of their respective proprietors.
all contents of this document are: copyright © 2018 nice ltd.
all rights reserved.
for assistance, contact your local supplier or nearest nice customer service center: international headquarters- israel tel: +972-9-775- 3100 fax: +972-9-775- 3070 email:
info@nice.com hong-kong tel: +852-2598- 3838 fax: +852-2802- 1800 emea region (europe, middle east, africa) tel: +972-9-775-3800 fax: +972-9-775-3000 email: support@nice.com apac region (asia/pacific) tel:
+852-8338-9818 fax: +852-2802-1800 email: support.apac@nice.com north america tel: 1-800-663-5601 fax: +201-356-2197 email: na_
sales@nice.com
the americas region (north, central, south america) tel: 1-800-6423-611 fax: +720-264-4012 email: support.americas@nice.com united kingdom tel: +44-8707-22-4000 fax: +44-8707-22-4500 israel tel: 09-775-3333 fax: 09-775-3000 email:
support@nice.com france tel: +33-(0)1-41-38- 5000 fax: +33-(0)1-41-38- 5001 germany tel:
+49-(0)-69-97177-0 fax: +49-(0)-69-97177- 200 nice invites you to join the nice user group (nug).
visit the nug website at www.niceusergroup.org and follow the instructions.
all queries, comments, and suggestions are welcome!
please email: nicebooks@nice.com for more information about nice, visit www.nice.com contents 1: introducing desktop analytics scope of this guide document revision history 2: desktop analytics solution workflow 3: preparing for the desktop analytics installation accessing advanced process automation installation files data mart installation prerequisites 4: installing the desktop analytics client installing the desktop analytics client component unattended (silent) installation 11 12 14 23 25 26 27 29 30 39 5: configuring desktop analytics settings application monitoring settings viewing application monitoring resolvers troubleshooting the oracle forms display 65 66 67 71 73 75 77 78 79 81 configuring desktop-to-citrix support for application usage events monitoring 87 desktop application monitoring settings desktop process monitor settings real-time database clean-up of records older than x days configuring desktop analytics parameters for wfm configuring smartcenter (totalview) parameters for wfm configuring xml file parameters for desktop analytics desktop-to-citrix support for application usage events monitoring configuration solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) 88 - 3 - table of contents configuring message days configuring masking 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer defining the real-time designer desktop process monitor application and page display names creating categories for display names importing selected application/page names into display names table exporting display name mappings importing display names exporting display names defining display names for applications and pages accessing the display names local file web domain and page mapping re-posting data defining process monitoring in real-time designer configuring a process and its tasks process and task design guidelines configuring an automatic process configuring tasks process path discovery monitoring a process process monitoring functions process functions task functions process monitoring properties using desktop work tracker desktop work tracker workflow performing additional miscellaneous configurations defining manual processes and their stop reasons configuring process stop reasons for manual processes configuring a manual process (desktop work tracker) configuring activities solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) 90 91 93 95 96 98 101 106 106 108 109 121 124 125 128 129 130 131 140 147 149 153 154 156 157 158 160 161 163 164 168 173 - 4 - customizing the desktop work tracker client look-and-feel using the desktop work tracker client 7: desktop analytics reports overview - working with reports accessing desktop analytics reports selecting filter parameters about the desktop analytics reports drill-down functionality desktop application analytics reports application usage report application usage report - business impact application usage report - defining and running analyzing the application usage report employee productivity report employee productivity report - business impact employee productivity report - defining and running analyzing the employee productivity report desktop process analytics reports application path analysis report application path analysis report - business impact application path analysis report - defining and running analyzing the application path analysis report application usage in process report application usage in process report - business impact application usage in process report - defining and running analyzing the application usage in process report process duration analysis report process duration analysis report - business impact process duration analysis report - defining and running analyzing the process duration analysis report running the application usage in process report process utilization report process utilization report - business impact process utilization - defining and running solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) table of contents 176 178 185 186 187 190 194 196 197 198 199 201 208 209 210 213 221 222 223 224 230 235 236 237 240 248 249 250 253 256 258 259 260 - 5 - table of contents analyzing the process utilization report total work item handling duration report total work item handling duration report - business impact total work item handling duration report - defining and running analyzing the total work item handling duration report desktop work tracker reports application path analysis report application path analysis report - defining and running analyzing the application path analysis report application usage in process report application usage in process report - defining and running analyzing the application usage in process report process duration analysis report process duration analysis report - defining and running analyzing the process duration analysis report running the application usage in process report process utilization report process utilization report - defining and running analyzing the process utilization report troubleshooting the desktop analytics reports missing data in the reports 8: server dashboard - administrative reports administrative reports in the server dashboard viewing the auto update downloads report viewing the solution downloads report viewing the logged-in users report viewing the callout display report a: data mart schema data mart table relationships general data mart schema tables gnr tables general dim tables solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) 263 273 274 275 280 283 283 283 288 292 293 296 298 299 300 303 304 305 306 315 316 317 318 320 324 328 329 333 335 337 338 339 - 6 - dwh_sites_dim dwh_calendar_dim dwh_agents_dim dwh_team_dim kpi tables kpi_meta kpi_result kpi_result_aggregation dc_sample table data mart database and operational database jobs desktop analytics data mart schema tables desktop analytics dim tables dwh_tasks_dim dwh_qtag_dim dwh_process_dim dwh_applicationpage_dim dwh_hierarchylevel_dim dwh_agentstate_dim dwh_ref_process_stop_reason_dim dwh_off_desktop_reason_dim raw data fact tables dwh_agentstateapppage_fact dwh_task_fact dwh_path_fact dwh_process_instance_fact dwh_off_desktop_user_reporting_fact aggregated data fact tables dwh_application_day_fact dwh_process_day_fact dwh_applicationprocess_day_fact dwh_task_day_fact data mart objects data mart entities data mart durations data mart hierarchies solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) table of contents 340 341 343 344 345
346 348 350 352 354 357 358 359 360 361 362 363 364 365 365 367 368 370 372 374 375 377 378 381 384 387 390 391 392 393 - 7 - table of contents b: using the recording method for defining processes and tasks recording workflow process recording toolbar how to record an employee session recording pane recording pane information - per column per event filter area trigger tab snapshot tab creating a process c: integration with third-party applications application monitoring rest api user application rest api services and log files resolver rest api resolver authorization api openam - best practice for token management best practice for token management d: desktop analytics best practices create and define your desktop analytics solution mapping display names and categories tips when mapping display names and categories define desktop process monitoring - phase 1 defining which processes to monitor configure start and stop triggers for the processes define dynamic process properties general process definition tips review problematic process properties monitor reports - phase 1 refine your desktop analytics solution define desktop process monitoring - phase 2 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) 395 398 399 401 402 403 407 408 410 411 413 414 414 418 419 419 420 420 423 424 425 429 432 433 435 436 437 437 438 439
440 - 8 - complete process triggers that were missed monitor reports - phase 2 define desktop process monitoring - phase 3 desktop analytics reports guidelines perform routine desktop analytics activities use the reports to analyze the cause for spikes in productivity maintain display names and applications use the reports to analyze efficiency vs. productivity use application monitoring to handle compliance issues reflect changes in target applications create a solid partnership between the customer business and it schedule maintenance activities e: desktop analytics - wfm web services f: data scripts data validation script application and page display names script table of contents 440 441 442 443 444 444 444 445 445 445 446 446 449 455 456 458 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 9 - [this page intentionally left blank] 1 1:introducing desktop analytics the desktop analytics solution is part of the advanced process automation system.
note: the desktop analytics solution was previously known as the real-time activity monitoring (rtam) solution.
nice advanced process automation was previously known as nice real-time solutions.
this solution guide provides a comprehensive guide to the desktop analytics solution.
scope of this guide document revision history contents 12 14 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 11 - 1: introducing desktop analytics scope of this guide scope of this guide this guide was updated for nice advanced process automation release 7.0, previously known as nice real-time solutions.
who should use this guide?
this guide is intended for personnel responsible for managing the desktop analytics processes to be monitored in the real-time solutions system.
note: before using this guide, users should be familiar with the concepts described in the designer user guide, particularly physical objects, screen elements, business entities and business logic, including rules and event handlers.
what is included in this guide?
installation and configuration overview of process and application monitoring process monitoring: guidelines, configuration, and usage application monitoring: configuration and usage best practices reports: running reports and creating reports server administration database schema management what is not included in this guide?
for these additional related procedures: see the following: for details about concepts and examples introduced in this guide.
designer user guide system administration guide to define physical objects, screen elements, business entities and business logic, including rules and event handlers.
designer user guide define data collection.
designer user guide solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 12 - 1: introducing desktop analytics scope of this guide for these additional related procedures: see the following: configuring settings in process path discovery.
system administration guide details on the monitor.
designer user guide creating reports in real-time designer designer user guide real-time solutions reports.
designer user guide limitations advanced process automation release notes solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 13 - 1: introducing desktop analytics document revision history document revision history revision software version date description 7.0-a1 7.0-a0 advanced process automation 7.0 february 2019 advanced process automation 7.0 december 2018 6.7-a0 advanced process automation 6.7 may 2018 updated note in installing the desktop analytics client component on page 30 added integration with third- party applications on page 413: application monitoring rest api on page 414 resolver rest api on page 419 added the new real-time site launcher for single client package.
see: silent installation: egrunonstartup on page 53 .
added new silent parameters for automation finder.
see unattended (silent) installation on page 39.
client and designer servers must be installed in a secure environment with https.
removed egserverhttps and egserverport from unattended (silent) installation on page 39.
updated data mart database and operational database jobs on page 354.
added configuring masking on page 91.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 14 - revision software version date description 1: introducing desktop analytics document revision history a9 advanced process automation 6.6 july 2017 added additional jobs to data mart database and operational database jobs on page 354.
updated real-time solutions to advanced process automation and rtam to desktop analytics.
added parameter to age desktop analytics messages.
see configuring message days on page 90.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 15 - revision software version date description 1: introducing desktop analytics document revision history a8 real-time solutions 6.5 february 2017 added importing display names on page 106.
added exporting display names on page 108.
added search for a process in desktop work tracker.
see using desktop work tracker on page 158 updated desktop work tracker button to activity (instead of off desktop).
see using desktop work tracker on page 158 updated the change to the active_application_threshold .
see desktop analytics - wfm web services on page 449.
updated the description of idle and lock to include the dwt activity.
see desktop analytics - wfm web services on page 449.
added the options to configure which messages to send from the rt client to the web server.
see desktop analytics - wfm web services on page 449.
added selecting an activity (with no processes enabled).
see using desktop work tracker on page 158 and performing additional miscellaneous configurations on page 161.
added specifying the maximum and minimum length of the process uid.
see using desktop work tracker on page 158 and performing additional solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 16 - revision software version date description 1: introducing desktop analytics document revision history miscellaneous configurations on page 161.
added maximum number of stop reasons.
see configuring process stop reasons for manual processes on page 164 and performing additional miscellaneous configurations on page 161.
added the queue tag limitation of 64 characters.
see configuring a manual process (desktop work tracker) on page 168 and configuring an automatic process on page 131.
updated importing selected application/page names into display names table on page 101 to include the automated list of generic display names as a mapping suggestion.
added data scripts.
see data scripts on page 455.
a7 a6 real-time solutions 6.4 july 2016 added note regarding other periods category to employee productivity report - defining and running on page 210.
real-time solutions 6.4 june 2016 guide reorganization solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 17 - revision software version date description 1: introducing desktop analytics document revision history a5 real-time solutions 6.4 reports: updated the process duration analysis report (see analyzing the process duration analysis report on page 253.
added the total work item handling duration report on page 273. updated the employee productivity report with the new running the application usage report on page 219 drill-through.
updated the data mart schema.
updated the deployment flow (see desktop analytics solution workflow on page 23.) added a new chapter on the desktop work tracker feature (see using desktop work tracker on page 158 for details).
revised the chapter defining the real-time designer desktop process monitor on page 95.
in the real-time designer process monitoring procedure, added the new manual and automatic processes configuration procedures (see configuring a process and its tasks on page 129.for details).
updated the accessing advanced process automation installation files on page 26 page.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 18 - revision software version date description 1: introducing desktop analytics document revision history a4 a3 real-time solutions 6.3 real-time solutions 6.3 december 2015
updated installing the desktop analytics client component on page 30 including wfm support.
the page removing raw data from display names was updated to masking raw data in display names on page 117 per the change to the ui. added the appendix desktop analytics - wfm web services on page 449.
updated the explanation on configuring tasks (see configuring tasks on page 140 for details).
added troubleshooting missing data in rtam reports.
see missing data in the reports on page 316 added an explanation on using tasks with processes.
updated the deployment flow.
added an explanation on tasks and processes and their statuses.
updated the configuration parameter names and references in importing selected application/page names into display names table on page 101 updated the rtam client component installation procedure.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 19 - revision software version date description 1: introducing desktop analytics document revision history a2 a1 real-time solutions 6.3 august 2015 added information on the data mart database and operational database jobs (see data mart database and operational database jobs on page 354 for details).
real-time solutions 6.3 june 2015 added a revised data mart schema chapter (see data mart schema on page 333 for details).
kpis have been changed to success measurements throughout the guide.
updated the configuring a process and its tasks section.
updated the process path discovery section (see process path discovery on page 147).
updated the deployment flow.
added new rtam reports (see desktop analytics reports on page 185 for details).
updated the section desktop-to- citrix support for application usage events monitoring configuration on page 88 updated the section application and page display names on page 96 updated the section installing the desktop analytics client on page 29 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 20 - 1: introducing desktop analytics document revision history revision software version date description a0 real-time solutions 6.3 june 2015 a new solution guide for release 6.3.
includes: updated reports (see desktop analytics reports on page 185) data mart database schema defining desktop analytics categories per group on page 118 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 21
-
[this page intentionally left blank] 2 2:desktop analytics solution workflow the following table details the workflow for installing and running the desktop analytics solution.
note: this solution guide contains all of the information that is specific to the solution you are deploying.
in this document, you may also be referred to other nice documentation for additional information.
please note that other nice documentation may contain references to nice solutions and products that are not relevant to your solution.
task description prerequisites 1.
2. review and verify that all prerequisites are in place before beginning the deployment process.
note: for all sizing requirements, see advanced process automation design document.
install the real-time server with data mart and cognos reporting.
reference see site preparation guide see installing a clean real- time server with data mart database in the server installation and upgrade guide solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 23 - 2: desktop analytics solution workflow reference see client and designer installation guide task description 3.
install the real-time client and designer.
note: when installing the real-time client and designer, if you use the oracle forms application and need to monitor it, in the installation custom setup window, make sure you install the java connector and oracle forms components.
4. access the desktop analytics client files from the nice software download center and install the files.
see accessing advanced process automation installation files on page 26 install and configure real-time designer and client and desktop analytics component 5.
install the desktop analytics client.
see installing the desktop analytics client on page 29 configure desktop analytics settings 6.
configure desktop analytics in the real-time designer.
see configuring desktop analytics settings on page 65 application monitoring 7. 8.
define the real-time designer desktop process monitor define process monitoring in the real-time designer seeapplication and process monitoring in real-time designer on page 93 set up the back-office using desktop work tracker see using desktop work tracker on page 158 set up and generate reports 9. 10.
generate desktop analytics reports.
generate server dashboard - administrative reports.
see desktop analytics reports on page 185 see administrative reports in the server dashboard on page 318 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 24 - 3 3:preparing for the desktop analytics installation this section describes the procedures that must be performed before installing desktop analytics.
accessing advanced process automation installation files data mart installation prerequisites contents 26 27 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 25 - 3: preparing for the desktop analytics installation accessing advanced process automation installation files accessing advanced process automation installation files advanced process automation software components are available as part of the customer order on the nice software download center (nsdc), depending on the purchase order.
note: the graphics below are by way of example only.
release numbers and packages may vary.
to access the latest advanced process automation software: 1. navigate to nice software download center, or nsdc > product updates.
the product updates page appears.
2. click advanced process automation.
for more details, see the client and designer installation guide.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 26 - 3: preparing for the desktop analytics installation data mart installation prerequisites data mart installation prerequisites please verify that the following prerequisites are in place before beginning the installation: requirement details comments sql server sql enterprise edition version 12 authentication prerequisites verify that the sqlserver login credentials, which will be used in the installer to create the data mart database, have the relevant server roles permissions.
to verify permissions: 1. open microsoft sql server management studio, locate the database and navigate to security > logins.
2. locate the login name, right-click it 3.
and select properties.
in the login properties window, click server roles.
4. verify that the following server roles are selected and then click ok.
bulkadmin public sysadmin domain name if you are using windows authentication (and not sql server authentication), you will need to define a domain user and password before you begin installing.
required only for windows authentication.
install integration services(ssis)
the data mart must be installed with integration services.
run sql 2012 ee installer again, select features, then click on integration services and run to install it.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 27 - 3: preparing for the desktop analytics installation data mart installation prerequisites ssis project location on the sql server define a folder in the sql server to which you will be copying the sql server integration services (ssis) project.
.net
4.5 framework windows authentication this installation requires the .net 4.5 framework to be installed on the machine.
if not installed, the setup wizard will automatically install it for you.
if you wish to install the data mart database using windows authentication, you will need to verify that the operational database is installed using windows authentication.
you will also need to verify that the windows user (domain\user and password) is the same user in both installations or use two users in the same domain that have sysadmin permissions to both the data mart database and the operational database.
if your site uses windows authentication, before installing the real-time server, verify you have already performed the procedures in the system administration guide in the section configuring openam with windows desktop sso module.
important!
if you are using windows authentication and are planning to install the data mart database and data hub operational database on separate machines, do not connect the data hub to the data mart during the installation process.
instead, use the data mart ui. solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 28 - 4 4:installing the desktop analytics client this section describes how to install the client components that support desktop analytics.
these components must be installed only after installing the advanced process automation system.
installing the desktop analytics client component unattended (silent) installation contents 30 39 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 29 - 4: installing the desktop analytics client installing the desktop analytics client component installing the desktop analytics client component for desktop analytics implementations, after installing the advanced process automation system, you must also install the component that supports the desktop analytics module on the real-time client.
to install the desktop analytics component for the client using silent installation go to unattended (silent) installation on page 39.
note: the client component should be installed only after installing the advanced process automation system.
make sure you have also installed rtclient first before installing this component.
to install the component that supports the desktop analytics module, use the following procedure.
to install the desktop analytics component for the real-time client: 1. on the client machine, double-click the nice rtam upgrade rx.x.x.msi installation file.
the installation wizard starts and the welcome window appears.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 30 - 2. click next.
the license agreement window appears.
4: installing the desktop analytics client installing the desktop analytics client component 3.
select the
i accept the terms in the license agreement radio button and click next.
the installation destination window is displayed.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 31 - 4: installing the desktop analytics client installing the desktop analytics client component 4.
in this, specify the following: a. b.
if you are using an aggregator server, in the wfm communication protocol select the protocol you intend to use (if at all): tcp or rest.
if you are not using an aggregator server, leave the default none.
in the messaging threshold field, specify how often the real-time client sends the last event for the process, agent and application states after a change occurs (if nothing has occurred, no notification is sent).
the default is 15 seconds.
note: the threshold is configured in seconds; the number of seconds are counted from when the last event was sent, if an event occurred.
c. in the wfm host field, enter the aggregator server’s ip or fully qualified domain name.
d. in the wfm port area, enter the aggregator server’s port number (the default is 80).
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 32 - 4: installing the desktop analytics client installing the desktop analytics client component 5. 6.
(optional) to use the desktop monitoring module for client-to-client communication, select application usage module should act in citrix server mode.
in this scenario, one client sends application usage data to another client, and not directly to the real-time server.
the real-time client that receives the data aggregates the information for both itself and the remote client.
if your desktop monitoring module will not work using client-to-client communication, continue with step 8.
the application usage events transmission via client to client window is displayed.
note: this option refers to application usage information only.
e. in the top row of radio buttons, define the client type for this installation.
select one of the following radio buttons in that row: local desktop: the client is installed locally on the client desktop.
remote client: the real-time client is installed on the citrix server.
in this case, the installation itself is run on the citrix server.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 33 - 4: installing the desktop analytics client installing the desktop analytics client component f. in the second row of radio buttons, specify whether the current installed real-time client will send the application usage directly to the real-time server or to a different client that in turn sends the information.
this communication is performed using a dedicated virtual citrix channel.
select one of the following radio buttons in that row: master: when selected, the real-time client sends its application usage information directly to the real-time server.
in addition, the real-time client sends any application usage information received from other real-time clients to the real-time server.
slave: the real-time client sends the application usage information to a master client.
g. click next to display the next window.
h. specify how application usage events are to be transmitted using client-to-client communication by selecting one of the following options: in the default channel name field, specify the citrix channel to be used for client-to- client communication when sending application usage information.
in the session process name field, specify the citrix session process name used to identify that the application usage information arrived from citrix.
7. click next.
the custom setup window is displayed.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 34 - 4: installing the desktop analytics client installing the desktop analytics client component 8.
select core and click next.
the ready to install the program window is displayed.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 35 - 4: installing the desktop analytics client installing the desktop analytics client component 9.
click install.
the installation begins.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 36 - 4: installing the desktop analytics client installing the desktop analytics client component 10.
if the user account control window is displayed, click yes.
11.
when the setup wizard completes, click finish.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 37 - 4: installing the desktop analytics client installing the desktop analytics client component solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 38 - 4: installing the desktop analytics client unattended (silent) installation unattended (silent) installation it is possible to install the desktop analytics component silently using a command line.
the syntax of the silent installation for the client is: msiexec /i
"rtam upgrade.msi" /qn eg_desktop="3" eg_process="3" egaggregator=rest eghost="1.1.1.1" egport="1" egwfmacdid="2" egwfmmsgthrottle="15" in this example, desktop analytics is installed with sending messages to the aggregator (ip: 1.1.1.1; port: 1), and both desktop monitoring (eg_desktop) and process monitoring (eg_process) are installed.
note: when installing the silent installation, both the eg_desktop and eg_process values must appear and must equal 3.
the parameters for the arguments are detailed in the following table: table 4-1: unattended (silent) installation syntax parameters property values default value description active_instance true / false false used for screen connectivity general configuration.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) used in... client - 39 - 4: installing the desktop analytics client unattended (silent) installation table 4-1: unattended (silent) installation syntax parameters (continued) property af_enable values default value description false true / false true = collect data from the client for automation finder false = do not collect data for automation finder when using automation finder, must be set to true.
used in... client solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 40 - 4: installing the desktop analytics client unattended (silent) installation used in... client table 4-1: unattended (silent) installation syntax parameters (continued) property values default value description none determines how data is stored.
af_hashing none / hide / securehash / mask none = save as plain text.
hash anything that might be a password (length 8-16 characters with a combination of digits or symbols and upper and lower case letters).
hide = text is not saved.
securehash = text and url parameters are hashed.
passwords are hashed.
title of active window: hash when there are more than 4 consecutive digits.
mask = text: replace digits with 'd', lower- case letters with 'c', and upper-case letters with 'c'.
url: mask everything after '?'.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 41 - 4: installing the desktop analytics client unattended (silent) installation table 4-1: unattended (silent) installation syntax parameters (continued) property values default value description title of active window: hash when there are more than 4 consecutive digits.
af_sensitiveapps comma separated list empty if af_hashing is not securehash, you can still apply securehash properties to specific applications.
this is a comma separated list of applications by their process name.
example: explorer, notepad++ used in... client solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 42 - 4: installing the desktop analytics client unattended (silent) installation table 4-1: unattended (silent) installation syntax parameters (continued) property values default value description businessusername text string indicates the robotic automation client user name.
when egusewinauth value is set to no, the default path is: rtra\rtclient1 when egusewinauth value is set to yes, the default path is: rtra rtclient username used in... client domain eg_desktop eg_process text string no value 2 = not installed.
3 = installed.
2 = not installed.
3 = installed.
2 2 domain name to be used for server authentication.
indicates whether or not to install rtam’s desktop monitoring component.
indicates whether or not to install rtam’s process monitoring component.
client rtam rtam solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 43 - 4: installing the desktop analytics client unattended (silent) installation table 4-1: unattended (silent) installation syntax parameters (continued) property eg_vcre values default value description 1 = checked.
no value = unchecked.
1 indicates whether or not to install vcredist_x86.
egaggregator 1 or not included not included egappdatafolder text string %appdata% egappmonmode master/slave not included egautoupdate 1 = checked.
no value = unchecked.
no value indicates whether or not to send messages to the aggregator server.
path to custom appdata folder.
application monitoring mode indicates whether or not to activate automatic updates.
used in... design er client rtam design er client rtam design er client egc2cchannel text string no value default channel name.
rtam solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 44 - table 4-1: unattended (silent) installation syntax parameters (continued) 4: installing the desktop analytics client unattended (silent) installation property egc2ctype egc2c egcacrm egcctit
egchrome values default value description citrixlocal/citrixserver no value 1 = checked.
no value = unchecked.
no value 2 = not installed.
3 (or no value) = installed.
2 = not installed.
3 (or no value) = installed.
2 = not installed.
3 (or no value) = installed.
2 2 2 how the real-time client should act.
when set to 1, indicates that the application usage module should work in citrix server mode.
indicates whether or not to install the java connector for amdocs crm. indicates whether or not to install the java connector for cti tool bar.
indicates whether or not to install the chrome connector.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) used in... rtam client rtam design er client design er client design er client - 45 - table 4-1: unattended (silent) installation syntax parameters (continued) 4: installing the desktop analytics client unattended (silent) installation values default value description 2 2 2 2 indicates whether or not to install the generic java connector.
indicates whether or not to install the .net connector.
indicates whether or not to install the microsoft office connector.
context indicates whether or not to install the java connector for oracle forms.
used in... design er client design er client design er client design er client design er client - 46 - property egcjava egcnet egcoffice 2 = not installed.
3 (or no value) = installed.
2 = not installed.
3 (or no value) = installed.
2 = not installed.
3 (or no value) = installed.
egcontext text string egcoraclef 2 = not installed.
3 (or no value) = installed.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) 4: installing the desktop analytics client unattended (silent) installation table 4-1: unattended (silent) installation syntax parameters (continued) property egcos egcpb values default value description 2 = not installed.
3 (or no value) = installed.
2 = not installed.
3 (or no value) = installed.
2 2 indicates whether or not to install the operating system connector.
indicates whether or not to install the power builder connector.
egcreatenativeimage true / false false create native image egcs6 egcsap 2 = not installed.
3 (or no value) = installed.
2 = not installed.
3 (or no value) = installed.
2 2 indicates whether or not to install the siebel 6 connector. indicates whether or not to install the sap connector.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) used in... design er client design er client design er client design er client design er client - 47 - 4: installing the desktop analytics client unattended (silent) installation table 4-1: unattended (silent) installation syntax parameters (continued) property values default value description egcterminal 2 = not installed.
3 (or no value) = installed.
2 indicates whether or not to install the terminal connector.
egdefaultp text string no value default solution to load egdesktopicon true / false true egfirefox egflex 2 = not installed.
3 (or no value) = installed.
2 = not installed.
3 (or no value) = installed.
2 2 indicates whether or not to create a desktop shortcut for the real-time client.
indicates whether or not the firefox connector is installed.
indicates whether or not to install the adobe flex connector.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) used in... design er client design er client design er client design er client design er client - 48 - 4: installing the desktop analytics client unattended (silent) installation table 4-1: unattended (silent) installation syntax parameters (continued) property egfqdn eghost values default value description true / false false hostname/ip address.
no value indicates whether or not the real-time client should use fqdn.
specifies the aggregator hostname.
specifies the server hostname.
eginstalljava 2 = not installed.
3 (or no value) = installed.
2 install java connector eglicense text string no value the license key.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) used in... design er client rtam iti bridge - all versio ns design er client design er client - 49 - 4: installing the desktop analytics client unattended (silent) installation table 4-1: unattended (silent) installation syntax parameters (continued) property egloud values default value description true / false true silent / gui installation.
egmsgfldr text string egpauserecordingfailedtext text string pause recording failed describes the actual text which will appear if pause failure occurs.
egpauserecordingsucceededtext text string pause recording succeeded describes the actual text which will appear when pause success occurs.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) used in... design er client rtam ti 4.1 iti bridge 4.1.4x iti bridge 6.3 iti bridge
4.1.4x iti bridge 6.3 - 50 - 4: installing the desktop analytics client unattended (silent) installation table 4-1: unattended (silent) installation syntax parameters (continued) property egport values number default value description no value specifies the aggregator port.
specifies the server port number.
egpw text string anonymous the user password.
egresumerecordingfailedtext text string resume recording failed describes the actual text which will appear if resume recording failure occurs.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) used in... rtam iti bridge - all versio ns design er client iti bridge
4.1.4x iti bridge 6.3 - 51 - 4: installing the desktop analytics client unattended (silent) installation table 4-1: unattended (silent) installation syntax parameters (continued) property values default value description egresumerecordingsucceededtext text string resume recording succeeded describes the actual text which will appear when resume recording success occurs.
egrtraport number 1414 egrtraserver egrtrasyslog fqdn fqdn hostname.domain hostname.domain egrtratimeout number 600000 indicates the robotic automation server port.
indicates the robotic automation server fully qualified domain name.
indicates the robotic automation syslog fully qualified domain name.
indicates the robotic automation client conversation timeout in milliseconds.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) used in... iti bridge 4.1.4x iti bridge 6.3 client client client client - 52 - table 4-1: unattended (silent) installation syntax parameters (continued) property egrtra values
yes / no egrunonstartup startup = start the client during startup.
launcher = start the rti launcher during startup as a process.
service = start the rti launcher during startup as a service.
sitelauncher = start the rti site launcher during startup as a process.
this is for single client package.
false = do not start the client or rti launcher during startup.
you can start them manually as needed.
4: installing the desktop analytics client unattended (silent) installation used in... client client default value description no launcher indicates how the client should act in robotic automation mode.
if you select yes, then on startup, this will force activate autoupdate & rti launcher.
indicates whether or not the client, rti launcher, or rti site launcher are automatically started when the machine starts.
if the rti launcher or rti site launcher are started, then they automatically start the client.
if the rti launcher is started as a service, then it can only be stopped by an administrator.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 53 - 4: installing the desktop analytics client unattended (silent) installation default value description hostname.domain rtpo server fully qualified domain name.
table 4-1: unattended (silent) installation syntax parameters (continued) property egserverip egshowcallout egshowsystrayicon values fqdn 1 = checked.
no value = unchecked.
1 = checked.
no value = unchecked.
““ = unchecked.
no value 1 egsidebyside true / false no value egsiebel 2 = not installed.
3 (or no value) = installed.
2 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) show callout for feedback on recording automation actions.
show client icon in system tray indicates whether or not to install the iti bridge side by side.
indicates whether or not to install the siebel connector.
used in... design er client iti 4.1 web analyti cs client iti 6.3 design er client - 54 - 4: installing the desktop analytics client unattended (silent) installation table 4-1: unattended (silent) installation syntax parameters (continued) property values default value description egstartmenuicon true / false true egstartrecordingfailedtext text string start recording failed indicates whether or not to create a start menu icon for the real-time client.
describes the actual text which will appear in the event of start recording failure.
egstartrecordingsucceededtext text string start recording succeeded describes the actual text which appears in the event of start recording success.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) used in... design er client iti bridge 4.1.4x iti bridge 6.3 iti bridge 4.1.4x iti bridge 6.3 - 55 - 4: installing the desktop analytics client unattended (silent) installation table 4-1: unattended (silent) installation syntax parameters (continued) property values default value description egstoprecordingfailedtext text string egstoprecordingsucceededtext text string stop recording failed describes the actual text which appears in the event of stop recording failure.
stop recording succeeded describes the actual text which appears in the event of stop recording success.
egsvnhttps 1 = checked.
no value = unchecked.
0 selection of http or https in gui/silent installation.
used in... iti bridge 4.1.4x iti bridge 6.3 iti bridge 4.1.4x iti bridge 6.3 design er egsvnip fqdn hostname.domain svn server fully qualified domain name.
design er solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 56 - 4: installing the desktop analytics client unattended (silent) installation table 4-1: unattended (silent) installation syntax parameters (continued) property egsvnport values number egsyncinterval number default value description for http, the default is 3691.
for https, the default is 3692.
30 svn server port.
synchronize interval in minutes.
egusername text string anonymous the user name.
egusewinauth
yes /
no yes egvappname text string egwpf 2 = not installed.
3 (or no value) = installed.
no value 2 use windows authentication indicates the session process name.
indicates whether or not to install the wpf connector.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) used in... design er iti 4.1 design er client design er client rtam design er client - 57 - 4: installing the desktop analytics client unattended (silent) installation table 4-1: unattended (silent) installation syntax parameters (continued) property values default value description egwritetoappdatartra 0 or 1 egwritetoappdata 1 or 0 1 0 when set to 1 or omitted, indicates that write settings are to the application data folder.
when set to 0, write settings are not to the robotic automation application data folder.
when set to 1 or omitted, indicates that write settings are to the application data folder.
when set to 0, write settings are not to the application data folder.
used in... client design er client solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 58 - 4: installing the desktop analytics client unattended (silent) installation table 4-1: unattended (silent) installation syntax parameters (continued) property installdir values default value description directory path installation directory %program files (x86)%\nice systems\real-time designer %program files (x86)%\nice systems\real-time designer used in... design er client ranodelist text string in the format: node1:porta,node2:portb,node3: portc...
no value same_process true / false soaplistenerenabled true / false false true a list of cluster nodes used for robotic automation.
client used for screen connectivity general configuration.
client enable or disable the real- time client api.
client solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 59 - 4: installing the desktop analytics client unattended (silent) installation table 4-1: unattended (silent) installation syntax parameters (continued) property values default value description soaplistenermaxport number between 1024-65535 41414 soaplistenerminport number between 1024-65535 41414 defines the real-time client api highest port number in the available port range.
defines the real-time client api lowest port number in the available port range.
used in... client client soaplistenerport number 8080 the real-time client api port number.
client solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 60 - 4: installing the desktop analytics client unattended (silent) installation used in... client table 4-1: unattended (silent) installation syntax parameters (continued) property values default value description soaplistenerresolutionmethod windowsusernameonly windowsusernamewithdomain windowsusernamewithfqdn machinenamewithsessionid windowsusername only defines the real-time client api unique identifier to be used.
windowsusernameonly example: johns windowsusernamewithd omain example: nice_ systems\johns windowsusernamewithf qdn example: nice.com\johns machinenamewithsessio nid example: <machine_ name>.<session_id> solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 61 - 4: installing the desktop analytics client unattended (silent) installation table 4-1: unattended (silent) installation syntax parameters (continued) property values default value description soaplistenerusesharedresourc esmode true / false false standalone 1 or 0 0
uniqueoslogin 1 = checked.
no value = unchecked.
no value usedomain true / false true determines whether the real-time client api is set to shared resource mode (for example, citrix).
set this to true when using a shared resource environment.
when set to 1, the client and designer work without a server in standalone mode.
indicates whether to use a unique operating system login.
determines that the real- time client will use the domain during log on.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) used in... client design er client iti bridge client - 62 - 4: installing the desktop analytics client unattended (silent) installation table 4-1: unattended (silent) installation syntax parameters (continued) property values default value description usesilentlogin true / false true controls the behavior of the login.
when set to true, the login is silent and the login form is not shown to the user.
when set to false, the login is manual and the login form is shown to the user.
note: if the aggregator is not used, egaggregator, egport and eghost can be omitted.
for example, msiexec /i "rtam upgrade.msi" /qn eg_desktop="3" eg_process="3" installs rtam without using the aggregator, with both desktop monitoring and process monitoring.
remember that in a silent installation both the eg_desktop and eg_process values must appear and must equal 3. used in... design er client solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 63 -
[this page intentionally left blank] 5 5:configuring desktop analytics settings this chapter describes how to configure the desktop analytics solution after installation.
configuring the desktop analytics solution is done in the real-time designer settings, in the real-time client branch.
additional special configurations are required for wfm environments.
application monitoring settings desktop application monitoring settings desktop process monitor settings real-time database clean-up of records older than x days configuring desktop analytics parameters for wfm configuring desktop-to-citrix support for application usage events monitoring configuring message days configuring masking contents 66 73 75 77 78 87 90 91 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 65 - 5: configuring desktop analytics settings application monitoring settings application monitoring settings the real-time client > application monitoring branch, shown below, contains the following option: active application/page sampling interval: specifies the interval for sampling the active application that is being monitored.
for example, if this value is one second, then every second a check is made to determine which application is active.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 66 - 5: configuring desktop analytics settings viewing application monitoring resolvers viewing application monitoring resolvers a major part of the desktop analytics is the ability to get the active page/window in the application currently used by the agent, and to represent it as a business unit use case in the overall processes the agent is performing.
following are the potential values that can be obtained from the active window: process name page/window title (caption) web page url note: java applications are checked for embedded ie browsers.
general information: resolvers are the components that are responsible for gathering the relevant data from the active application (for example: from the caption, url, and so on).
there are four resolvers that are automatically included in the client installation: win32 resolver: this resolver is used for all applications which are not specifically defined to use a specific or another resolver.
ie resolver: this resolver is used for internet explorer.
chrome resolver: this resolver is used for chrome.
ff resolver: this resolver is used for firefox.
resolvers that are not included in the client installation are dependent on which screen connectors are installed during the client installation (in other words, they are screen connector-dependent).
for example: when the hllapi terminal connector is installed, the hllapi resolver is added.
the win32 resolver retrieves only the caption.
the java resolver retrieves the caption, the java application name, and tries to get the url.
all other resolvers retrieve both the caption and the url.
to view the resolver system settings: 1. click the relevant resolver.
2. each resolver displays the following properties: assembly name: the assembly file (dll) containing the resolver object.
key:
the application's process name to be handled using this resolver.
name: the resolver’s internal name.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 67 - 5: configuring desktop analytics settings viewing application monitoring resolvers type name: the resolver object type name.
argument: an optional property that can be used by the java resolver (in this property, you may use either the “usewin32caption” or the java caption).
nameproperty: the name of the object in the background of the url, this is a mandatory property for chrome and firefox resolvers.
note: the nameproperty has a default value; therefore, if used in localized installations of the browser, you will need to change this value accordingly.
example: ie resolver settings java resolver settings solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 68 - 5: configuring desktop analytics settings viewing application monitoring resolvers chrome resolver settings firefox resolver settings solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 69 - 5: configuring desktop analytics settings viewing application monitoring resolvers hllapi resolver settings solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 70 - 5: configuring desktop analytics settings troubleshooting the oracle forms display troubleshooting the oracle forms display you need to verify that the windows process name of the application you are trying to monitor is the one that appears in the key attribute of the resolver configuration.
to this purpose, there are three resolver configuration entries in the configuration file (there are three lines): java javaw jp2launcher
in the main, oracle forms runs under the jp2launcher resolver configuration entry using the attribute argument="useinternalframe".
oracle forms can also run under the java resolver configuration entry, so the same attribute argument must be modified in the appropriate configuration line.
to do this, use the following guidelines.
to troubleshoot the oracle forms display: 1. verify that real-time client is installed.
2. verify that rtam upgrade (rtam client) is installed.
3. open the real-time client, and then open the oracle form application.
4. 5. in the database, in the table wfm monitoring event, verify that oracle child windows appear.
in other words, verify that the windows' process name of the application you are trying to monitor is the one that appears in the key attribute of the resolver configuration.
if oracle child windows do not appear, do the following: a. from the app data, open the client exe.config file.
b.
in the resolver area, three java resolvers appear.
c. in each java resolver, one of two arguments appear: useinternalframe usewin32caption
d. in the key attribute of the resolver configuration, modify the java resolver configuration entry to useinternalframe.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 71 - 5: configuring desktop analytics settings troubleshooting the oracle forms display e. in the database, in the table wfm monitoring event, verify that oracle child windows appear.
f. make sure that next installations are adjusted to the findings above.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 72 - 5: configuring desktop analytics settings desktop application monitoring settings desktop application monitoring settings you can monitor desktop applications and review the collected data through various reports.
these settings are configured in the designer real-time client settings, in the desktop application monitoring branch.
the following settings are located in the desktop application monitor branch: setting details activate application usage monitoring determines whether to monitor for application usage.
when set to true, application monitoring is enabled, and information about the active application and page is logged to the real-time server.
this setting does not affect process monitoring in any way.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 73 - 5: configuring desktop analytics settings desktop application monitoring settings setting details buffer size for aggregated application usage events stored in memory desktop application monitoring mode specifies the maximum number of events in the buffer in memory that is used to store application usage events.
when this limit is reached, events are flushed to persistent storage.
be sure to set this value so that the system is not overloaded.
specifies whether the client sends the monitoring information to another client (citrix/desktop) or directly to the server.
valid values are master or slave.
display names service url specifies the url used to receive the display names mapping from the real- time server.
enable remote application usage ignored applications sets the use of the citrix feature, as described in desktop-to-citrix support for application usage events monitoring configuration on page 88.
specifies the applications (process names) not to be monitored.
multiple values can be entered, separated by semicolons (;).
when a user moves from a monitored application to an ignored one, the current application event is closed and a new one is opened when a non-ignored application comes into focus.
virtualization application name specifies the citrix session process name that is to be ignored.
this value is provided by the customer's it department.
see desktop-to-citrix support for application usage events monitoring configuration on page 88 for details.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 74 - 5: configuring desktop analytics settings desktop process monitor settings desktop process monitor settings you can monitor desktop processes, and review the collected data through various reports.
these settings are configured in the designer real-time client settings, in the desktop process monitor branch.
note: process monitoring is not available with the license for desktop application analytics.
the following settings are located in the desktop process monitor branch: solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 75 - 5: configuring desktop analytics settings desktop process monitor settings setting details activate idle sampling default process and desktop idle threshold in seconds determines whether to monitor for idle time within a process.
when the active task for a process is paused, the process enters an idle state and the system begins counting the time as idle time from that point forward until the next keyboard event is received (keyboard or mouse).
the process exits the idle state (and stops counting the time as idle time) when the next input event is received.
when set to true, monitoring to detect and measure idle time within a process occurs.
specifies the default threshold to wait after the last input event is received, before changing a process's state to idle.
this value is in seconds.
a process idle threshold can be defined for any project.
if no such value exists for a given process, then the default value specified here is used.
the value you specify here is also used to set the default idle threshold that is used for desktop monitoring.
default process timeout interval in seconds specifies the default threshold before timing out a process.
this value is in seconds.
idle sampling interval in seconds specifies the interval at which the client samples the operating system to determine when the last input event occurred.
this value is in seconds.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 76 - 5: configuring desktop analytics settings real-time database clean-up of records older than x days real-time database clean-up of records older than x days this feature enables you to schedule the automatic deletion of desktop analytics and data collection records that are older than a configured number of days (x days).
note: this feature applies to data collection and desktop analytics tables only.
it does not purge data from other database objects (such as kpis, alerts, audit tables and so on).
important!
this feature does not back up any data before deletion.
a database backup, if needed, must be implemented by the customer’s it department.
to configure real-time database clean-up: the feature is configured using the quartz link for the server configuration.
see the quartz parameters in configuring smartcenter (totalview) parameters for wfm on page 79.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 77 - 5: configuring desktop analytics settings configuring desktop analytics parameters for wfm configuring desktop analytics parameters for wfm for wfm environments, additional configurations need to be performed.
these configurations are performed in the quartz settings in the designer and in specific xml files.
note: for detailed information on configuring desktop analytics (and wfm) for receiving employee data from wfm and configuring desktop analytics (and wfm) for historical data that is sent to wfm, see the back office proficiency suite integration guide.
continue with: configuring smartcenter (totalview) parameters for wfm on the facing page configuring xml file parameters for desktop analytics on page 81 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 78 - 5: configuring desktop analytics settings configuring smartcenter (totalview) parameters for wfm configuring smartcenter (totalview) parameters for wfm the following parameters need to be configured in the quartz section in the designer system configuration branch: totalview report export job cron expression totalview report export scheduler offset totalview report resend cron expression to configure the quartz parameters: 1. in the designer application on the real-time server, navigate to the administration tab.
2. in the administration tree, click on system configuration.
the configuration management area appears on the right.
3. click quartz.
a list of configurable parameters appears.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 79 - 5: configuring desktop analytics settings configuring smartcenter (totalview) parameters for wfm 4.
scroll to the totalview parameters and configure them as follows: a. set the value for the totalview report export job cron expression parameter.
the totalview report export job cron expression parameter specifies the setting that controls when to export desktop analytics reports.
the settings for this parameter are: -1: disabled.
0
2/30 * *
*?: (recommended) runs twice every hour, at xx:02 and xx:32, where xx represents the hour.
0
2/15 *
*
* ?: runs four times per hour, at xx:02, xx:17, xx:32 and xx:47, where xx represents the hour.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 80 - 5: configuring desktop analytics settings configuring xml file parameters for desktop analytics
b. set the value for the totalview report export scheduler offset parameter.
the totalview report export scheduler offset parameter specifies what data to include for the reports export, based on an offset interval that is specified in seconds.
for example, if this value is set to 120 seconds, it means that the data included in the reports export is from 120 seconds before the actual running of the export.
note: the totalview report export job cron expression and totalview report export scheduler offset parameters work in tandem to specify when and what data is to be included in the export, respectively.
for example: assume that the values for these two parameters are set as follows: totalview report export job cron expression: 0 2/30 *
* * ? totalview report export scheduler offset: 120 seconds this means that the reports export runs at two minutes and 32 minutes after the hour (10:02, 10:32 and so on) using data from 120 seconds (two minutes)
prior to the export's actual execution, which means that the data is from 10:00, 10:30 and so on.
c. set the value of the totalview report resend cron expression parameter.
the totalview report resend cron expression parameter specifies the setting that controls when to export the employee work journal report.
this report is typically run once a day.
be sure to configure this parameter using the cron syntax shown above.
5. click save to save your changes.
configuring xml file parameters for desktop analytics in wfm environments, certain desktop analytics parameters must be configured in the following 2 xml files: total-view-report-beans.xml file user-management-beans.xml file to configure the xml file parameters: 1.
in the installation directory\config\spring\ directory, locate the total-view-report-beans.xml file, and select edit to open the file for editing.
2. locate and configure the following parameters: solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 81 - parameter totalviewreportmanager 5: configuring desktop analytics settings configuring xml file parameters for desktop analytics details define the properties listed under this parameter as needed.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 82 - parameter exporttimeframeduration 5: configuring desktop analytics settings configuring xml file parameters for desktop analytics details set the property value, in seconds.
this property specifies the amount of time (duration) for sending a report during the reports export process.
the value here should equal the number of minutes you specified in the wfm report export cron expression parameter in step above.
the number of minutes for the exporttimeframeduration and wfm report export cron expression parameters must be the same, in order for all report data to be sent during an export process.
failure to do so will result in some report data not being sent.
1800: set the property to this value to indicate 30 minutes.
900: set the property to this value to indicate 15 minutes.
note: the values for the exporttimeframeduration and wfm report export cron expression parameters should have the same logical value.
note that the exporttimeframeduration property value is in seconds and the wfm report export cron expression parameter value is in solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 83 - 5: configuring desktop analytics settings configuring xml file parameters for desktop analytics details minutes.
specify the path to which the exported report for this property should be written.
specify the relative path on ftp server to which the report information for this property should be written.
set the property value, in seconds enter the id of the ftp configuration bean.
the ftp configuration bean consists of three properties that define the ftp connection settings (host, username and password).
define each of the properties.
this parameter specifies the suffix of the report file name and is used to distinguish wfm reports from ewj reports.
leave this field as is (empty).
specify which reports to run.
for wfm reports, these include: agentdetaildatareport agentsystemperformanc ereport queuereport parameter localreportsdirectory remotereportsdirectorypath exporttimeframeduration totalviewreportmanagerftp reportname reports 3.
save the file.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 84 - 5: configuring desktop analytics settings configuring xml file parameters for desktop analytics 4.
in the installation directory\config\spring\ directory, locate and open the user-management- beans.xml file.
5. locate and configure the following parameters: parameter totalviewuserimporter details leave the existing value for the totalviewuserimportftp property.
if you need to change its value, do so as follows: specify the path on the ftp site to the xml user export folder for the remotedir parameter.
leave the default value for the remotesystemid parameter.
this is a static field that holds the system id that is preconfigured for totalview.
do not change this value.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 85 - parameter totalviewuserimportftp 5: configuring desktop analytics settings configuring xml file parameters for desktop analytics details this parameter configures the ftp values required for the user import process.
enter the ftp connection settings that indicate where to locate the file for the user import process (host, username and password) in the three rows beneath this row.
for these three parameters, look at the remark at the far right of each of these rows to see which parameter is which.
6. save the file.
note: once you have completed the desktop analytics implementations, you must also import the cognos package.
see the installation guide for more details.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 86 - configuring desktop-to-citrix support for application usage events monitoring 5: configuring desktop analytics settings configuring desktop-to-citrix support for application usage events monitoring desktop-to-citrix support for application usage events monitoring configuration 88 desktop analytics’ application monitoring monitors all applications running on the employee’s desktop.
if the user is using citrix on their desktop, it is considered as a desktop application, but excludes the actual remote applications running in the citrix session.
if desktop analytics’ application monitoring is running in a citrix server, it only monitors applications running in that citrix server, unaware of the local desktop applications.
in versions preceding real-time solutions 4.8.20, in a mixed environment of local desktop applications and citrix applications, the two desktop analytics clients were considered as separate clients providing duplicate entries, with different computer names and user ids.
this feature enables desktop analytics’ application monitoring in a mixed environment so that the application monitoring provides a single, coherent application monitoring feed.
the communication between the local and remote client is achieved via a citrix client-to-client (c2c) mechanism.
note: if the employee's desktop contains only a citrix session that contains other internal citrix sessions, it is possible that the master client be installed in the main citrix server (where the desktop sessions run from) while collecting desktop analytics feeds from the internal citrix sessions.
this feature enables either the desktop client or the citrix session client to be configured as the master client.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 87 - desktop-to-citrix support for application usage events monitoring configuration 5: configuring desktop analytics settings desktop-to-citrix support for application usage events monitoring configuration the following system settings window shows a sample configuration for the master client, where the local desktop client is defined as the master client.
important!
a master client (desktop or citrix) can only receive an desktop analytics feed from a citrix channel that is directly connected.
if more than one citrix session is in use, the master client must be running on the local desktop.
processes cannot run from the slave machine.
the following table shows an example of how to properly configure this feature.
in this example, the desktop client is the master client.
when the citrix client is the master client, modify the configuration accordingly.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 88 - desktop-to-citrix support for application usage events monitoring configuration 5: configuring desktop analytics settings configuration parameter value for desktop client value for citrix client comments desktop application monitoring mode enable remote application usage virtualization application name master slave true true
the default is false.
for example, "wfica32,cdviewer" na the default value is "".
configuration parameter description sets the client monitoring mode sets the use of the feature the citrix sessions' process names that are to be ignored, separated by a comma, provided by the customer's it.
for the following parameters, you will need to scroll down in the settings window until you reach rtam channel enumerator.
click the + sign to open and then click rtam c2c channels > rtamc2cchannel: type of client type citrixlocal citrixserver per citrix channel.
citrix channel name channel name "" "" the value must be identical for both the master client and citrix client.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 89 - 5: configuring desktop analytics settings configuring message days configuring message days you can set the number of days that the server uses as a threshold for rejecting old messages,
that is, if the message has a start time older than the specified number of days, the message will not be handled and the data will not be pushed to the database.
the default value is set to 90 days.
to configure the message days parameters: 1. in the designer application on the real-time server, navigate to the administration tab.
2. in the administration tree, click on system configuration.
the configuration management area appears on the right.
3. click server.
a list of configurable parameters appears.
4. set 'days from now' for allowed old rtam messages to the required number of days.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 90 - 5: configuring desktop analytics settings configuring masking configuring masking this feature enables you to set the level of page masking, that is, when to mask raw data sent by the client.
to configure the masking: 1. double-click the rtserver shortcut icon the desktop.
2. click the server console link.
3. enter your username (rtiadmin) and password (default is admin123).
4. click the configuration management link.
5. click the desktop analytics link.
6. in sets level of page masking, enter one of the following: 0 - no masking (with the exception that whatever is assigned by a user to be masked during display name mapping is masked as per version 6.6 and earlier).
1 - mask only unmapped application (only the application name/domain is collected).
2 - mask all pages (only the application name/domain is collected).
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 91 - [this page intentionally left blank] 6 6:application and process monitoring in real- time designer desktop analytics monitors which applications and processes an employee is using at any given time on the desktop.
the goal of process monitoring is to determine the lapse time for an employee's usage of an application or a given page in an application.
together with the process monitoring, the application monitoring can be used to support workforce management (wfm) efforts, which work together to facilitate the analysis of employee productivity and efficiency.
for application monitoring, events indicating which application or page is currently open are collected and logged.
events are logged at the application or page level, which means that they are logged for each specific application window title or url.
for example, when an application event becomes active on an employee's desktop, application monitoring identifies which screen of that application is active.
if the active screen is an internet explorer page, then the url designates the active screen or page.
event data is transmitted and then aggregated on the real-time server, where it can be used for reporting purposes.
this reporting enables you to perform further analysis about the historical usage of an application by an employee.
when event data is detected on the desktop, it may optionally be transmitted by the real-time client to the wfm server, where it can be viewed and further analyzed.
as part of the implementation of desktop analytics' application monitoring, the real-time server contains tables for mapping application and page names to display names.
see application and page display names on page 96.
desktop analytics' application monitoring only requires limited configuration in the advanced process automation system to define the global configuration settings needed to enable this functionality.
see desktop application monitoring settings on page 73.
note: process monitoring is not available with the license for desktop application analytics.
defining the real-time designer desktop process monitor defining process monitoring in real-time designer solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) contents 95 128 - 93 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer using desktop work tracker 158 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 94 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer defining the real-time designer desktop process monitor defining the real-time designer desktop process monitor the real-time designer desktop process monitor branch enables you to perform several operations related to desktop analytics.
the desktop process monitor branch includes the following sub-branches: display names: enables you to map the display name of an application and the pages within it so that they are more indicative and easily recognizable in generated reports.
see application and page display names on the next page for details.
data re-post: used to manually re-post interval data for a specific interval.
for desktop analytics reporting, the real-time server automatically sends interval data to the totalview server.
see re-posting data on page 125 for details.
desktop work tracker: enables keeping track of agent activity on manual processes using stop reasons and off desktop reasons.
see using desktop work tracker on page 158 for details.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 95 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer application and page display names application and page display names display names are used for the reporting and analysis of information gathered during application monitoring activities.
they are used as a kind of shorthand that enables you to easily recognize the associated application's windows os process or application page.
the display names branch enables you to map the display name of an application and the pages within it so that they are more indicative and easily recognizable in generated reports.
note: if you do not map any display name, then unmapped applications will appear bucketed as pages without display names in desktop analytics reports.
you can perform the following operations in the display names window: create categories for the applications or pages.
see creating categories for display names on page 98.
import selected or all application or page names into the display names tables.
see importing selected application/page names into display names table on page 101.
export display name mappings to another environment.
see exporting display name mappings on page 106.
manually define display names for applications and pages: define the display name for an application.
see defining the display name for an application on page 110.
add a page to an application and define its display name.
see adding a page to an application and defining its display name on page 113.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 96 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer application and page display names example: an administrator needs to define display names for applications, but prefers to do it in multiple sessions.
instead of filling a .csv file with all the information in the database and configuring the entire csv file, the administrator automatically imports the information directly from the database using the designer user interface.
in addition, the administrator only selects specific applications and pages they want to define at the moment.
if the database includes the following information: app 1: www.nice.com page 1: http://www.nice.com/engage/services page 2: http://www.nice.com/about-nice page 3: http://www.nice.com/protecting/what-we-do app 2: excel page 1: workday summary page 2: salary track page 3: grocery list then a selective import of display names when the administrator requests the list of unmapped applications they will receive the following: www.nice.com excel when the administrator clicks on each unmapped application, the list of unmapped pages, per application is displayed.
the administrator can then map each unmapped page to a display name.
for example, if the administrator selects www.nice.com and then maps each unmapped page to the display names, the next time the administrator requests the list of unmapped applications, only the excel appears in the list because www.nice.com was mapped.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 97 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer creating categories for display names creating categories for display names using the category feature, real-time designer can map large quantities of technical information on applications and the pages within it, and translate this technical information into information that can be understood and used to benefit the business through generated reports.
there are two default categories: business related uncategorized you can use these default categories or create other categories that can be selected for each application or page.
using categories, you can: create a list of categories for the display names, which can be used as filters when creating and running reports.
select a category for each application or page.
guidelines for assigning categories to display names consider the following when assigning categories to display names: any application/page display name that is not specifically categorized is, by default, categorized as uncategorized, and appears in the reports under the category uncategorized.
any application/page display name can be included in more than one category.
no other category can be selected together with uncategorized.
applications and pages can have different categories as they may have different display names.
in the database, application and page categories are separated into separate entries.
in any categorized report, only one category is represented to avoid duplicate counting.
categorized reports first show page categories.
if there are no page categories, then the application categories are shown.
if there are no application categories, then the uncategorized category is shown.
tip: do not assign more than one category to a display name.
selecting multiple categories per display name, may create duplication in the reports.
to create a category list for display names: 1. in the administration area, navigate to desktop process monitor, then click on display names.
2. in the middle pane, select the root folder.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 98 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer creating categories for display names 3.
in the right pane, in the application categories area, click a text line is added below. .
4. in the text line, enter a meaningful category name.
5. repeat step 3 to step 4 for each category that you need to create.
6. after creating all the required categories, click the apply categories changes button , to save the changes.
7. the categories you create are available for selection for each application or page under the display names root folder.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 99 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer creating categories for display names 8.
to delete a category that you created, select the category and click .
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 100 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer importing selected application/page names into display names table importing selected application/page names into display names table you can import pre-existing applications and pages into the desktop analytics module.
these applications and pages are imported from the client machines.
by importing pre-existing applications and pages into the desktop analytics module, the administrator can quickly fill the display names root folder tree with raw data, and then easily update the imported applications and pages using the display names option.
when importing, real-time designer creates an automated list of generic display names as a mapping suggestion.
this enables you to view duplications and optionally select the suitable pattern for unifying similar applications into the minimum number of display names.
this eliminates redundant display names.
the unmapped application names are grouped together under a common node using the wildcard.
for example: *.ebay.com pay.ebay.com checkout.ebay.com www.ebay.com if more than one wildcard is added the child nodes reflect the nested generic display names respectively.
for example: *.nice.co* *.nice.com niceweb.nice.com vlab.nice.com something.nice.co.il to import selected applications/pages into the display names table: 1. in the real-time designer, navigate to administration tab > desktop process monitor > display names.
2. in the root folder pane, click .
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 101 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer importing selected application/page names into display names table the import display names window appears.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 102 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer importing selected application/page names into display names table 3.
in the query settings area, specify the number of days in the search within the last x days option.
enter a value between 1 and 92 (default is 7). .
all unmapped applications are included from the period (minus the last hour).
4. define the percentage in the show applications, ordered by longest duration, up to x% usage of time in total option.
this will include the applications with the highest durations accumulated up to the percentage specified.
the default is 99.
5. click next.
the list of selected applications and pages appears in the application selection area.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 103 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer importing selected application/page names into display names table note: only pages that do not yet already appear in the root will appear in the application selection area.
you can sort the applications and pages by name or by usage by clicking on the column header.
6. click back to change your selection of the number of days or percentage of applications.
7. select the relevant applications and pages.
if an application is not expanded in the tree, and you select the application, only the application (but none of its pages) is selected.
if you expand the application in the tree, and then select the application, the application and all its pages are selected.
if you select a page, the application is automatically selected.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 104 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer importing selected application/page names into display names table 8.
click import to import the selection to the root folder.
the root folder tree is updated with the selected applications and pages.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 105 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer exporting display name mappings exporting display name mappings display name mappings can be exported to another environment.
exporting to another environment automatically overwrites any display name mappings that exist in the target environment.
to export display name mappings to another environment:
1. in the current environment area at the top left of the window, from the drop-down list select the environment from which you want to export display names.
2. in the export to area, select the environment to which you want to export display names.
3. click export.
the entire display name database for the selected environment is exported to the selected target environment.
importing display names you can import display names from a csv file and add them to the application tree.
the file must include the following fields (with these exact names and in this order) separated by commas: name: mandatory.
the page or application display name, that is, the node name in the application tree.
key: mandatory.
the page or application name.
value: mandatory.
the page or application display name.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 106 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer importing display names active: mandatory.
whether to add (true) or remove (false) the page or application (name) from the application tree.
if a name is marked for removal in the csv and the guid cannot be found in the tree, then the name will not be removed from the application tree.
app_name: either the parent application name if the name is a page, or blank if the name is an application.
type: the display name type, either caption or url.
if you leave this blank, url will be used by default.
you can change this manually in the tree after the import is completed.
guid: must be unique.
if a guid is duplicated in the file, the last record overwrites any previously loaded record with the same guid.
if the guid is left blank, a generated guid will be added automatically.
to import display names: 1. in the real-time designer, navigate to administration tab > desktop process monitor > display names.
2. click .
3. navigate to and select the required csv file and then click open.
the file is processed and any relevant messages appear in the messages pane.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 107 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer exporting display names exporting display names you can export display names from the application tree to a csv file.
the file will include the fields separated by commas.
the fields are described in importing display names on page 106.
to export display names: 1. 2. in the real-time designer, navigate to administration tab > desktop process monitor > display names.
if changes have been made to the tree, click apply changes to ensure that what you export is all the information in the database.
3. click .
4. navigate to the required location and enter the required csv file name and then click save.
the file is created and a confirmation message appears.
5. click ok.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 108 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer defining display names for applications and pages defining display names for applications and pages defining display names enable you to define more indicative names for the following application elements: an application's windows os process names main window captions urls (pages) the display names branch displays a root tree structure in the middle pane of the window that lists those applications already defined and their associated pages.
pages must be manually added to each application in the middle pane of the window, if you want to map them to a display name for reporting purposes.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 109 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer defining display names for applications and pages defining the display name for an application you can define a more intuitive name for different applications that will be easily recognizable in generated reports.
to define a display name for an application: 1. in the root folder tree select an application.
the properties area for that application appears in the right pane.
2. in the properties area in the right pane of the window, in the application/page name field, enter a name for the page.
note: you can use asterisks as wildcards in this field.
for example, if you specify *corporate* in this field, the display name for all pages for that application that contain the string corporate are changed accordingly, based on the display name you specify in step 3 below.
when using wildcards in this manner, the entire page name or caption is affected, and not only the part that matches the string within the wildcard characters.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 110 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer defining display names for applications and pages 3.
in the display name field, specify a display name.
display names can have a maximum of 300 characters.
note: display names longer than 300 characters are marked with a red line in the tree.
4. from the category list, select a category from the list of available categories.
selecting a category will enable the user to use filters in relevant reports, per the selected category.
note: use the rtam categories per group feature to assign a non-default category to one or more teams.
see defining desktop analytics categories per group on page 118 for details.
5. click the apply changes button at the bottom of the window to save your settings.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 111 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer defining display names for applications and pages 6.
if there are any errors, they are displayed in the messages pane at the bottom of the window.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 112 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer defining display names for applications and pages adding a page to an application and defining its display name you can add a page to an existing application, and then define a page name that is more intuitive and easily recognizable in generated reports.
you can also change an existing page name.
to add a page to an application and define its display name: 1. in the root folder tree select an application, right-click, and select add.
a page is added under the selected application tip: you can also select an application in the tree and then click the window.
at the bottom of the following is displayed in the properties area in the right pane of the window: solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 113 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer defining display names for applications and pages 2.
in the application/page name field, enter a name for the page.
note: you can use asterisks as wildcards in this field.
for example, if you specify *corporate* in this field, the display name for all pages for that application that contain the string corporate are changed accordingly, based on the display name you specify in step 3 below.
when using wildcards in this manner, the entire page name or caption is affected, and not only the part that matches the string within the wildcard characters.
3. in the display name field, specify a display name.
display names can have a maximum of 300 characters.
note: display names longer than 300 characters are marked with a red line in the tree.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 114 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer defining display names for applications and pages 4.
in the page typedropdown list, select one of the following options: caption: indicates whether to use the page name, as specified in the title bar of the browser window, to identify the page.
url: indicates whether to use the page name, as specified by the page’s url, to identify the page.
5. from the category list, select a category from the list of available categories.
selecting a category will enable the user to filters in relevant reports, per the selected category.
6. click the apply changes button at the bottom of the window to save your settings.
7. if there are any errors, they are displayed in the messages pane at the bottom of the window.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 115 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer defining display names for applications and pages solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 116 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer defining display names for applications and pages masking raw data in display names user's display names are often captured together with additional data that is either irrelevant or may contain identification details that you do not wish to store in your database.
when defining a page display name, you can choose to mask this raw data.
to mask raw data in display names: 1. when defining a page name, select the mask page raw data checkbox (the checkbox is not selected by default).
2. remove the detailed part of the url or caption from the page name and display name and replace it with an asterisk (*).
this ensures that the windows and pages are captured by their display names without their specific details.
3. click apply changes at the bottom of the window to save your settings.
the client will not send the raw data for the masked page display name.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 117 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer defining display names for applications and pages defining desktop analytics categories per group in a single organization, different business groups or lines of business may have different uses for the same applications.
to enable these groups to define different categories per group, the real- time designer desktop analytics categories per group feature enables the user to assign a non- default category to one or more teams.
to set a new assignment of category per group: 1. in the real-time designer, navigate to administration tab > desktop process monitor > display names.
2. in the left pane, select an application or application page.
3. in the display name definition screen, go to the default category section.
4. to override the default category with a different category for a specific group(s) of users, click the plus icon in the window.
5. in the select team/s window, select the group or groups from the list by selecting the relevant check box.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 118 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer defining display names for applications and pages 6.
click apply to add the group(s) to the category panel.
the new group(s) will be added as "uncategorized".
7. to modify the new category, click the category list and select a different category.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 119 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer defining display names for applications and pages 8.
you may apply the same category per group definition to any page or application by selecting the page or application from the left pane.
9.
when you have completed defining the pages and applications for the category per group, click apply changes to save the new definition to the server.
10. to remove existing group category definitions, select the check box of the relevant definition and click the trash icon in the window.
11.
in the confirmation message, click yes to confirm the deletion.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 120 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer accessing the display names local file accessing the display names local file if the source for the display names feature is a local file on the real-time client, to access this local file you must navigate to the following location: 1. 2.
in the real-time client, open the system settings window, and select the desktop application monitoring branch.
in the right pane, misc area, select the display names local file path property.
this property specifies the file path for the local file.
3. when using a local file as the source for display name mapping, see the next section for information about guidelines.
general guidelines when using the display names local file path the following conditions apply when using a local file as the source for display name mapping: if the display names local file path property value is empty or the file specified by it does not exist, then no display names are created.
the client looks for the local file at startup when the client is set to standalone mode or if the connection to the server fails.
otherwise, the local file is ignored.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 121 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer accessing the display names local file the local file should be a *.csv file with five cells in each row, and where each row contains information in the following format: app_key, app_value, page_key, page_value, page_ type.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 122 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer accessing the display names local file note: the following requirements apply: applications hold information using app_key and app_value columns only.
internet explorer, firefox and chrome pages require information for all columns.
if some of the fields are missing, the information is ignored, and the actual names are sent to the real-time server.
the app_key must be supplied as it is the uid for the entire process.
following are the names of the columns in the local file and in the server's database: app_key: the application's original name that is to be replaced with a display name.
for most applications, it is the process name as it appears in the task manager (for example, calc, outlook and so on).
for internet explorer, firefox and chrome it is the host name of the site (for example, www.google.com, niceweb.com and so on).
app_value:
the application display name.
this is the display name that the user selects for this application.
page_key: the original value of the page caption or url, if applicable (for internet explorer, firefox and chrome).
page_value: the display caption/url.
this is the display name that the user selects for this web page.
page_type: indicates if the page_key is a caption or url (values should be caption or url only).
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 123 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer web domain and page mapping web domain and page mapping the web domain and page mapping feature works in concert with the display names feature.
when the application being monitoring is internet explorer (ie), firefox or chrome the application name is masked by the host name in the display name tables.
example: let's assume that ie is typically denoted as iexplore in the display name tables.
because this notation is generic, it does not clearly indicate the actual application being monitored.
in this case, the application name is masked to show the actual host name part of the url, such as www.google.com.
if the host name cannot be found in the display name mapping tables, the display name shows as the host name itself, instead of iexplore.
for display name mapping purposes, if no url can be retrieved from the browser, for example, when a page not loaded error or other type of failure occurs, the app_key serves as the process name (such as iexplore).
let’s look at some examples in more detail: if the application is iexplore: the web application domain is mapped according to the application display name mapping (example: www.nice.com to nice).
the web page url is mapped according to the page display name mapping (example: www.nice.com\enterprise... to nice enterprise).
if no relevant display name mapping is found: the web application domain is the host name (example: www.nice.com).
the web page url is the full url (example: www.nice.com\enterprise...).
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 124 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer re-posting data re-posting data the data re-post branch is used to manually re-post interval data for a specific interval.
for desktop analytics reporting, the real-time server automatically sends interval data to the totalview server.
the totalview report resend cron expression parameter in the cron.properties file controls this automatic process.
this parameter sets the frequency for the system to automatically scan posted data to check for dirty intervals (meaning those intervals that contain data that was not sent).
when a dirty interval is detected, the system automatically resends its data so that the interval is clean.
this means that it sends all the data for that interval again, which now includes any data that was never sent before.
note: the totalview report resend cron expression parameter is also configurable via the real-time designer gui by selecting server branch > batch > quartz > totalview report resend cron expression in the system settings window.
for more details, see system administration guide, batch section.
in some cases, it may be necessary to manually re-post data for a given interval.
to do so, you define the start and end times for the interval, as described below.
to define an interval for manual re-posting of data: 1. select the data re-post branch in the administration module tree.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 125 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer re-posting data 2.
in the re-posted data start field, specify the date and the time to re-post the data: to re-post the date, click the down arrow at the left of the field, which opens a calendar, then select the date in the calendar.
you cannot manually enter a date.
to re-post the start time for the interval, use the up and down arrows at the right of the field to scroll through the list of intervals.
by default, intervals are defined by 30-minute periods.
note: the default interval period is configurable by selecting server branch > batch > quartz > wfm report export cron expression in the system settings window.
for more details, see system administration guide, batch section.
3. in the re-posted data end fields, specify the end date and interval in the same manner as described in step 2 above.
4. click the re-post data button at the lower right of the window to generate a report that contains those entries within the specified interval.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 126 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer re-posting data solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 127 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer defining process monitoring in real-time designer defining process monitoring in real-time designer process monitoring enables the monitoring of the activities on an employee (client) desktop.
the activities to be monitored are represented as processes and tasks that can be monitored by the real- time solutions solution.
this chapter introduces desktop analytics’ process monitoring concept and describes how to configure the necessary elements in real-time designer for desktop analytics’ process monitoring scenario.
together with the application monitoring, the process monitoring can be used to support workforce management (wfm) efforts, which work together to facilitate the analysis of employee productivity and efficiency.
note: log messages for the process/application monitoring modules are logged using dedicated process monitoring and application monitoring loggers.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 128 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer configuring a process and its tasks configuring a process and its tasks process and task design guidelines configuring an automatic process configuring tasks 130 131 140 note: process monitoring is not available with the license for desktop application analytics.
this section describes how to configure automatic processes and their tasks.
the procedures described in this section give you step-by-step instructions for setting up the email message handling process and two of its tasks, as described in introducing desktop analytics on page 11.
follow the procedures below to configure the process and tasks in real-time designer.
for the purpose of this scenario, it is assumed that the required business processes have already been defined in real-time designer, including their details to be monitored (triggers and their details).
it also assumes that the necessary screen elements have already been mapped.
note: to set up manual processes and their stop reasons, see the next chapter, using desktop work tracker on page 158.
before you begin: verify that you have reviewed and understood the guidelines in process and task design guidelines on the next page.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 129 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer process and task design guidelines process and task design guidelines it is important that you follow the guidelines below when designing processes and tasks to be monitored: by default, tasks must be mutually exclusive.
therefore, make sure that the triggers or logical procedures that these tasks represent are also mutually exclusive in real life.
in some cases, there may be a logical order for executing tasks.
in such situations, you may want to link the start of one task to the end of another task.
this means that the end of the first task acts as the trigger for the start of the second task.
in other cases where you cannot be sure of the order of performance of tasks, you need to define standalone triggers.
verify that tasks have start and stop triggers that correctly reflect what you are trying to measure.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 130 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer configuring an automatic process configuring an automatic process this section describes how to configure an example automatic process introduced in introducing desktop analytics on page 11.
after setting up the process, you configure the tasks comprising that process, as described in configuring tasks on page 140.
note: processes and tasks can be defined in real-time designer using standard methods (described below), or using a recording approach.
see using the recording method for defining processes and tasks on page 395 for details about the latter.
step 1 through step 5 in the scenario described below assume that standard methods have been used.
to configure an automatic process for monitoring in real-time designer: 1. open the business logic window by clicking the business logic module tab.
2. in the processes tree, select automatic processes and then click or right click automatic processes and select add > new automatic process from the popup menu: .
a new automatic process is added to the tree.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 131 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer configuring an automatic process 3.
assign a recognizable name to the process.
4. define the relevant screen elements to be used as triggers and the unique identifiers of the processes and tasks.
it is assumed that this step has already been performed by an integration expert.
for more details, see the defining screen elements section in the real-time designer user guide.
5. create the business entities to store the values of these screen elements or represent their events and functions.
it is assumed that this step has already been performed by an integration expert.
for more details, see the business entities section in the real-time designer user guide.
6. define the triggers of the process: a. click the down arrow in the start when area to define its value.
in our example, an event is used as the start trigger.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 132 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer configuring an automatic process the following window is displayed: b. select screen elements > outlook >
*message* > created in the drop-down list, as shown below: solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 133 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer configuring an automatic process this selection means that as long as the original message window is active (not closed), then this process is active.
c. define the stop when value to indicate when the message window is closed.
select screen elements > outlook > *message* > destroyed in the drop-down list, as shown below: this selection means that as long as the original message window is destroyed (inactive), then this process is active.
7. define the properties of the process: solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 134 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer configuring an automatic process a. define the queue tag value.
the queue tag provides a means to categorize the process.
for example, because handling emails is a generic activity, you may want to categorize the emails being handled by type, such as claims-related emails, request-related emails and so on.
in a wfm environment, different types of emails are automatically handled separately.
in order to provide information to the wfm system in the most usable form, you also want to categorize emails by type, so that email handling time for different email types can be counted separately.
using queue tags can help differentiate between the various contexts of the usage of a process.
note: for automatic processes, a queue tag must have 64 or fewer characters and must not include spaces or tabs.
this limitation is required when sending process information to workforce management (wfm).
if the process information is not being sent to wfm and you require more than 64 characters in the queue tag, use a text business entity in the queue tag instead of a static value.
the business entity and its initial value can include more than 64 characters.
for our scenario, select business entities > message orientation in the drop-down list.
the message orientation value means that the email type can be determined directly from the email itself.
in effect, this selection extracts the prefix of the email address in the to field of an email, up to the @ sign in the address.
the extracted prefix is then used to tag (categorize) emails by type, so that email handling time for different email types can be counted separately.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 135 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer configuring an automatic process b. define the unique id value.
the unique id identifies the process instance currently being executed.
this field is used to support multiple instances of a process in a seamless manner.
the unique id is assigned once, when the process starts.
the unique id typically has some type of business meaning and is used to uniquely identify a specific transaction, problem or issue being handled.
note: real-time designer's screen integration and connectivity technology can connect to multiple instances of a window or application at any given point in time.
however, for the purpose of this exercise, we assume that only the active instance of an email message window is considered.
the unique id is limited to 250 characters.
if it is longer than that, the value is truncated by the server.
if preferred, use the alternative unique id property to temporarily store a business unique
id while the process uses an operational unique id. at run time, the value you specify for this property is assigned to the unique id of the process when the process stops.
important!
the unique id enables you to handle various types of circumstances described below.
the uniqueness of the value is crucial for a process.
for our scenario, the email caption (subject) is used to determine the unique id. to do so, select current message caption in the drop-down list.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 136 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer configuring an automatic process this selection means that the unique id is taken from the subject line (shown in the message window caption) of the email message window currently in focus, even when multiple email message windows are open simultaneously.
for example, let's say that you first open email a that contains the subject aaa
and then you open email b, which contains the subject bbb.
you now have two instances of the same process, where one is assigned to a message window with subject aaa and the other to a message window with the subject bbb.
real-time designer process monitoring can differentiate between these two process instances and can count for each of them accordingly.
therefore, when the user performs another action, such as clicking the reply button in one of these emails, the reply action is automatically associated with the correct process instance, based on the value of the business entity property current message caption at the time of the click event.
in the example described above, the unique id associates a process instance with a physical entity (in this case, a message window).
you can also use the unique id to associate handling time across multiple users or processes.
for example, you could use a claim id as the unique id for this purpose.
the unique id enables you to handle both types of circumstances described above.
it is important to specify the correct type of value in the desktop in order to ensure that it is in fact unique, such as claim id or [claim i
d
+
day + hour].
the uniqueness of the value is crucial for this purpose.
c. define the timeout after value by checking its checkbox and then assigning a numeric value in the adjacent box.
the timeout defines the process total time; once reached, the process will be terminated, and is not dependent on the activity in the process time.
this field is optional and is useful if the standard stop trigger does not occur or is never reached.
note: if this option is not checked and there is no value assigned to it, the default timeout value will be according to the real-time designer settings (3600 seconds).
however, if you assign a value in the automatic process, it will override the timeout configured in the settings.
d. define the idle after value by checking its checkbox and then assigning a numeric value in the adjacent box.
this field enables you to specify an idle threshold, in seconds.
idle time is measured at the process level, and indicates when no mouse or keyboard action is detected for longer than the specified threshold.
in this case, the value is 30 seconds.
this field is optional and is useful when the idle threshold of the process should be different than the idle threshold of the desktop.
for more details about the desktop idle threshold, see desktop process monitor settings on page 75.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 137 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer configuring an automatic process this selection means that if no action is detected on the desktop within the specified threshold, such as a mouse press or keyboard action, then the state of the process changes to idle.
when a process becomes idle, it automatically pauses all of its active tasks.
the process resumes when the next input event is received (keyboard or mouse).
note: a "lock" state indicates that the user's desktop is locked.
8. define the action when process ends using the action editor in the middle of the window.
use the action editor to define the instructions to be performed when the process ends.
for example, to start a workflow once the process ends.
this action editor works in the same manner as other action editors available in real-time designer.
9. specify the linked data collection activity value.
note: when you select data collection in the process properties, the activate and collect functions are triggered behind the scenes when the process’s stop trigger is triggered.
10. click the down arrow in the linked data collection activity field to define its value.
only one data collection activity can be selected.
note: for details about how to define data collection, see designer user guide, defining data collection section.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 138 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer configuring an automatic process 11.
in the success measure area, select measure value and data source.
the success measure area enables you to specify a measure value, thereby providing additional performance information for that process.
the process handling time, in seconds, is the default measure value set.
alternatively any decimal business entity can be set.
12. select the measureoption and then click in the measure field.
13. select any decimal business entity as a data source for the measure value.
14. enter a short description for the measure value.
this will be the measure type shown in the reports.
note: the sum of all percentage values is always 100%.
15.
repeat step 11 through step 14 for each measure.
you are now ready to specify the tasks for the process and define their properties.
to do this, proceed to configuring tasks on the next page.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 139 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer configuring tasks configuring tasks this section describes how to configure two of the three tasks comprising an email message handling process.
to configure a process's tasks for monitoring in real-time designer: 1. in the business logic window, click process.
assign a recognizable name to the task, such as reading email.
to display a new task branch under the 2. select the start tab to define start and stop trigger properties for the task.
3. click the down arrow in the start when field to configure its value.
this field indicates when the task begins.
every task must have at least a start trigger.
the following window is displayed: solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 140 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer configuring tasks 4.
select processes >
[name of process] > started in the drop-down list, as shown below: this selection indicates the start event for the task.
in this example, the task should start immediately when the process starts.
5.
next, specify the value for the stop when field.
this field specifies the trigger for stopping the current active task: if the checkbox is not selected, this means that when the process stops, so does its task.
6.
if the stop when field is selected, you will need to specify the trigger that stops the task by clicking the select rule or event dropdown list.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 141 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer configuring tasks 7.
specify the value for the use own unique id field.
typically, a process's unique id is automatically assigned to its component tasks whenever a task changes its state (start, stop, pause or resume), in order to ensure that the task instance is correctly assigned to the correct process instance.
when you enable the use own unique id field, the value of the data source that you select is used instead of the process's unique id data source value.
this field is useful when the process's unique id is not available at the time when the task event should occur.
in effect, the use own unique id field specifies a backup location to look for the unique id, if for any reason it cannot be found in the data source assigned to the process.
in this case, the checkbox is unchecked for this task.
defining pause and resume triggers when defining multiple instances of the same process type (for example, an email reply), the real- time client can recognize when an instance has been paused automatically - according to the instance that is currently in-focus.
moving between different instances of the same process will, therefore, pause and resume the processes accordingly.
when defining multiple processes, the real-time client is also able to identify that the agent has switched between processes and will automatically pause the first process; however, in order to resume the first process, you will need to define a resume trigger for the process.
to define pause/resume triggers: 1. select the pause tab and define the trigger for pausing/resuming the task.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 142 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer configuring tasks 2.
specify the trigger, event or logical expression that pauses and resumes the task.
when you select this option, you must define the trigger condition or event for pausing and resuming.
3. remember to define a resume trigger for the task- you will need to define a resume trigger even if there is no defined pause trigger (in other words even if the pause checkbox is not selected).
note: if, for the same process type, there is more than one instance running, because both instances receive their unique id value from the same data source (defined in the process type), when the unique id value changes, the process pauses and resumes automatically according to the unique id value and the instance it matches.
the resume trigger is taken into consideration if it occurs; however, when a trigger is fired (for any process trigger that is defined in the process type) it looks at the current unique id value to ensure that it is applied to the correct process instance.
the resume trigger will have no effect if it is fired from a process that is already running (since the unique id has probably not changed) and it will try to resume the same instance that is already running.
the resume trigger is mandatory, even if there is no pause trigger defined, in cases where a process type is paused but is not automatically resumed.
if the paused ‘new’ process is closed, the ‘old’ process will not necessarily resume automatically and needs to be resumed using the trigger.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 143 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer configuring tasks 4.
click to add a new task branch under the process.
give this task a recognizable name, such as writing a response, as shown below: 5. specify the value for the pause when field by selecting trigger rule in the dropdown list, as shown below: the following is displayed: when writing a task, we are defining a rule as the trigger for when the task begins.
as such, you must now define the condition(s) for this rule.
6. click the start tab and define the conditions for the rule, as shown below: solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 144 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer configuring tasks as shown above, this rule has three conditions to ensure that the email is in fact a response email.
these conditions are described below: for condition 1, the send button in the email message is now available.
the logic here is that when the user clicks the reply button in an email message, the send button becomes available in the email message for sending the reply.
this indicates that the reply email message for the specific received email message is currently in edit mode.
condition 2 states that the current message caption (email subject) contains the caption (subject) of the handled email message and is therefore associated with the same process instance of the handled email message.
condition 3 states that the current message caption contains the text re, thereby indicating that the email is a reply to the originally opened email.
the logic here is that when the user opens an email, the value of its caption (subject) is stored.
therefore, when the user clicks the reply button in the email, a check can be made to determine whether the message response contains the same caption as the originally opened email.
7. define the stop when value for the task.
in this case, a stop condition is specified (unlike in the reading the email task).
check the stop when checkbox and then select screen elements > outlook > *message window* > send button > clicked in the drop-down list, as shown below: solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 145 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer configuring tasks this selection means that the task is stopped when the user clicks the send button in this specific instance of the email message.
8.
next, select the pause tab and define the trigger for pausing/resuming the task.
in this case, the pause when option at the top of the pane is selected.
when selecting this option, you must define the condition(s) that trigger when to pause and resume the task.
9. define the conditions for pausing the task: this selection specifies that the task is paused according to the condition specified.
10. define the conditions for resuming the task: this selection specifies that the task is resumed according to the condition specified.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 146 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer process path discovery process path discovery desktop analytics' process path discovery feature provides a strong analytical tool for discovering the actual process execution methods, in terms of applications and process tasks, used by call center or back office employees to accomplish their business processes.
to accomplish a process, each employee may actually use slightly different methods, such as different applications in a different order, or performing process tasks in a different order.
because processes have a success measure that represents the business goal, each process performed (process instance) has a measure value that represents that process instance’s success in achieving the business need.
the process path discovery utilizes the success measure associated with a process to determine the overall measure value of a process instance.
go to step 11 inconfiguring an automatic process on page 131 for more details about success measures.
for the purpose of path discovery, non-active time on the client is considered only when it reaches a duration threshold (meaning, the time was very long).
non-active time on the client includes idle time, hold time and locked time, as follows: idle time: the time when no mouse or keyboard action is detected on the client for longer than a specified threshold.
hold time: the time that begins after a process starts, but before the first task starts, or the time between tasks.
note: all states, process on hold, process active , idle and locked are separated one from the other.
in other words, the states are not overlapped.
locked time: the time when the client computer is in a locked state (by pressing ctrl+alt+del and then locking the computer).
this concept is illustrated in the following figure: a threshold can be defined for each non-active time (idle, hold, locked).
values below these thresholds are ignored, in order to eliminate unnecessary noise.
idle, hold and lock time settings are configured in the system settings window.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 147 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer process path discovery for details about configuring the settings described in this section, see the real-time server > server branch in the system settings window, which is described in the system administration guide.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 148 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer monitoring a process monitoring a process the monitor window contains the process monitoring tab, which can be used to monitor processes and their instances and tasks.
this tab shows all the processes defined in a project.
note: when using the monitor, you can immediately see the name of a process that you created.
however, you can only see a process’s instances and tasks after the process starts running.
the navigation pane of the window has a branch for each process and sub-branches for each currently running instance of that process.
for example, the figure above shows one solution named dpm, which has a single process named test.
the test process has two instances named calc-1988 and calc-3672.
each instance has four tasks named 1, 2, 3 and 4.
select a process branch in the navigation pane to display its properties in the top-right pane.
the bottom-right pane displays the condition triggers for that process.
it contains a start trigger tab and a stop trigger tab.
the start trigger tab contains a row for each condition that acts as a start trigger for the process.
the stop trigger tab contains a row for each condition that acts as a stop trigger for the process.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 149 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer monitoring a process after a start/stop condition is met (triggered), the actual values that triggered that action are shown in the respective tab.
the tabs in the bottom-right pane display the following information for each condition row: business entity property value select an instance branch in the navigation pane to display realtime information about that instance, such as its queue tag, score and so on in the top pane on the right, as shown below: the following information is displayed for a selected instance: solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 150 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer monitoring a process application name when started: specifies the name of the application when the instance began running.
queue tag: specifies the queue tag, as described in step a. score: specifies the success score, as described in step 11.
screen name when started: specifies the screen caption when the instance began running.
start time: specifies when the process instance began running, as described in step a. unique
id: specifies the unique id, as described in step b. url when started: specifies the application url when the instance began running.
the information in the bottom-right pane lists the events that occurred related to the selected instance, along with their details.
the events list provides the following information for each event: name: specifies the name of the task where the event occurred.
type: indicates the type of event that occurred, such as start, stop, idle, activated, pause and resume.
application: specifies the name of the application that was running when the event occurred, meaning the application being monitored.
screen: specifies the screen caption of the application, meaning the caption in the title bar of the application.
url: for web applications, specifies the application’s url.
timestamp: specifies the timestamp when the event started.
select a task branch in the tree to display realtime information about that task, as shown below: solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 151 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer monitoring a process the following information is displayed for a selected task in the top-right pane: use process unique id: indicates whether to use the process’s unique id or the unique id for the task, as described in step 7.
use stop trigger: indicates whether a stop trigger is in use for the task, as described in step 7.
the bottom-right pane contains a series of tabs that correspond to the condition triggers for that task: the start trigger tab contains a row for each condition that acts as a start trigger for the task.
the stop trigger tab contains a row for each condition that acts as a stop trigger for the task.
the pause trigger tab contains a row for each condition that acts as a pause trigger for the task.
the resume trigger tab contains a row for each condition that acts as a resume trigger for the task.
after a start/stop/pause/resume condition is met (triggered), the actual values that triggered that action are shown in the respective tab.
the tabs in the bottom-right pane display the following information for each condition row: business entity property value for more details about the monitor, see designer user guide, monitoring a project section.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 152 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer process monitoring functions process monitoring functions this section describes the usage of real-time designer functions for processes and tasks, and includes the following subsections: process functions task functions 154 156 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 153 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer process functions process functions the following functions are available for processes: active task: use this function to retrieve the name of the active task within the specific process instance, according to the specified unique id. this function can only be used for a task that was started or that is paused.
queue tag: use this function to retrieve the queue tag of a specific process instance, according to the specified unique id. replace queue tag: use this function when you want to change the queue tag.
replace unique id: use this function to change the unique id. the parameters for this function specify the old unique id and the new unique id that is to replace it.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 154 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer process functions note: use of the replace unique id function introduces risk if not synchronized with the data source for the unique id property in the process properties.
this means that following an invocation of the replace unique id function, you must ensure that the data source assigned to the unique id property returns the same new unique id value that you assigned to in the invocation of replace unique id. if you have not done so, process/task events occurring after the replace unique id invocation are lost, as the value from the data source of the unique id property no longer matches the new unique id value that the process instance now holds.
report manual: use this function when you want to report manual processes or work items.
start time: use this function to retrieve the time when a specific process instance was activated, according to the specified unique id. state: use this function to retrieve the state of a specific process, which can be active, idle, on hold or locked according to the specified unique id. terminate all: use this function to stop all active instances of the process.
terminate instance: use this function to stop a specific instance of the process, according to the specified unique id. this is useful instead of specifying a stop trigger for a process.
for example, in unique cases when at the time that the stop trigger event is detected, the unique id value may not be available in the unique id data source that was specified for the process.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 155 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer task functions task functions the following functions are available for tasks: pause: use this function to pause a specific task instance according to the specified unique id. resume: use this function to resume a specific task instance according to the specified unique id. state: use this function to retrieves the state of a specific task instance, which can be start, pause or idle, according to the specified unique id. solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 156 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer process monitoring properties process monitoring properties the following property is available when defining a process: name: specifies the display name of the process object.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 157 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer using desktop work tracker using desktop work tracker desktop work tracker is a feature that enables an employee to manually insert processes into the system, from the employee's desktop.
desktop work tracker is intended for organization employees, providing them with full control of starting and stopping processes and identifying processes.
using desktop work tracker, the administrator can: define manual processes define process stop reasons for manual processes define activity reasons to be used by the agent during runtime this provides management with the ability to keep track of agent activity and application usage on manual processes.
using the client desktop work tracker, the agent is then able to: select between process types and set the unique id (uid).
start, stop, pause, and resume a process instance (pause in this case refers to putting the process into "sleep" mode".)
select an off-desktop activity.
note: there is a configuration option to allow employees to set their off-desktop activity only (and not allow them to handle processes).
see performing additional miscellaneous configurations on page 161.
the desktop analytics reports will then present the data for these manual processes in the same way as for standard processes.
about desktop work tracker desktop work tracker uses the basic real-time designer process monitoring capabilities to employ “manual” process management.
the agent is prompted with a callout containing a list of predefined processes and a uid text box.
the agent must then select start, stop, pause, or resume for any of the processes.
the agent can also manually set an ‘activity’ reason and pause all processes (meaning the agent is now in another activity, for example: lunch break, meeting, and so forth).
the manual process type has one task defined in it , which is set to start and stop together with the process.
when the agent selects to pause or resume the process, this pauses or resumes the task itself.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 158 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer using desktop work tracker desktop work tracker workflow 1.
define process stop reasons.
2. (optional) create activities: if you do not define any activity in the activities tab, when the agent clicks the activity button in the desktop work tracker client, the reason will be recorded as "paused work").
3. go to the business logic tab, configure manual processes, and then apply the process stop reasons (see configuring a manual process (desktop work tracker) on page 168 for details).
4. publish the solution so that the agent can use the desktop work tracker client to track manual processes and their activity (refer to the real-time designer user guide for details).
note: you will not be able to publish the solution if there are no stop reasons defined for the manual process.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 159 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer desktop work tracker workflow desktop work tracker workflow the following table details the workflow for using the desktop work tracker.
task description reference step 1: desktop process monitor - define process stop reasons and off desktop activities (administrator).
1. 2. 3. 4. in the real-time designer, using the administration module tree, configure process stop reasons.
see configuring process stop reasons for manual processes on page 164 optional: set up activities.
optional: set up default process stop reasons.
optional: configure the number of concurrent processes instances.
see configuring activities on page 173 see configuring process stop reasons for manual processes on page 164 see performing additional miscellaneous configurations on the facing page step 2: configure a manual process (desktop work tracker) (administrator).
5. use real-time designer process monitoring, configure manual processes and assign them process stop reasons.
see configuring a manual process (desktop work tracker) on page 168 step 3: using the desktop work tracker client (agent).
6. use the desktop work tracker client to manage processes, stop reasons, and off desktop activities.
see using the desktop work tracker client on page 178 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 160 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer performing additional miscellaneous configurations performing additional miscellaneous configurations various miscellaneous options can be configured for desktop work tracker.
the number of concurrent process instances that can be displayed on the agent's desktop work tracker client can be configured.
this is used to avoid situations where the agent has too many instances, and is unable to address each one properly.
the maximum number of stop reasons per process can also be configured.
an option to use the activity tracker only allows employees to set their off-desktop activity in the desktop work tracker window (without handling processes).
there are also options to specify the maximum and minimum length of the process uid entered by the employee in the desktop work tracker window.
to perform additional miscellaneous configurations : 1. in the administration module tree, navigate to desktop process monitor > desktop work tracker and select the misc tab.
2. in the max number of concurrent process instances field, enter the number of concurrent processes you want to display on the agent's desktop work tracker client.
note: the number of concurrent process instances can also be configured through the server console; see system administration guide for details.
3. in the max number of stop reasons per process field, enter the maximum number of stop reasons allowed per process.
you can define these reasons in the manual processes branch in the business logic tab of the designer.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 161 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer performing additional miscellaneous configurations 4.
select the use activity tracker callout only (without processes) checkbox to allow employees to set their off-desktop activity only (and not allow them to handle processes).
when this option is selected the desktop work tracker window only includes the option to select an off-desktop activity and does not include any processes.
note: this option is only applied if the client is connected to the real-time server.
no real- time designer solution is required.
if the client does not connect to the real-time server, this option is not applied, and the behavior is as if this option was unchecked.
5. 6. in the max length of uid field, enter the maximum length (between 1 and 100) allowed for a new manual process uid (entered in desktop work tracker).
in the min length of uid field, enter the minimum length (between 1 and 100) allowed for a new manual process uid (entered in desktop work tracker).
note: there are no limitations in uid length if the client is not connected to the real-time server.
7. click apply to save your changes.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 162 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer defining manual processes and their stop reasons defining manual processes and their stop reasons solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 163 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer configuring process stop reasons for manual processes configuring process stop reasons for manual processes desktop work tracker provides organization employees with a tool for defining process stop reasons for manual processes.
these process stop reasons then enable management to track agent activity on manual processes, which are defined in the business logic (see configuring a manual process (desktop work tracker) on page 168 for details).
desktop work tracker includes three system-based stop reasons that are preinstalled with the system: shut down time out: if the manual process has been configured with a preset timeout and the process reaches its timeout, this stop reason will be applied as relevant (seestep c in configuring a manual process (desktop work tracker) on page 168 for details).
completed: this reason will appear in the process stop reasons list by default, and can be deleted or modified as needed (see below for details).
note: if you do not set any process stop reasons in the desktop work tracker, only the system-based reasons will be included for the manual processes.
the reasons shutdown and time out will not appear in the real-time designer or real-time client, but will be used by the system in the relevant situations (when the real-time client shuts down or when the process times out).
you may add reasons, edit existing reasons, and delete reasons.
because multiple users may be accessing the system at the same time, you may want to refresh the list of process stop reasons before making changes.
the process stop reasons will be displayed alphabetically in the setup but according to their defaults in the selection.
note: the maximum number of stop reasons per process can also be configured.
see performing additional miscellaneous configurations on page 161.
to add, edit or delete process stop reasons: 1. in the administration module tree, navigate to desktop process monitor > desktop work tracker and select the first tab, process stop reasons.
the process stop reasons tab displays the current process stop reasons in alphabetical order.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 164 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer configuring process stop reasons for manual processes 2.
click .
a row is added to the list of reasons.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 165 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer configuring process stop reasons for manual processes 3.
enter a stop reason in the new row.
the reason should not exceed 25 characters.
4. to add the next reason click the space under the existing reasons and then click new row.
to add a 5.
when you have finished adding process stop reasons, click apply to save your changes.
real-time designer will display a notification that your changes were applied successfully.
note: the reasons will be displayed in the monitoring tab; see defining process monitoring in real-time designer on page 128 for details.
6. to edit an existing reason, select it, modify the reason name and click apply to save your changes.
real-time designer will display a notification asking that your changes were applied successfully.
7. to delete an existing reason, select the reason (or select multiple reasons from the list by holding down your mouse) and click .
8. when asked to confirm the deletion, click yes to delete.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 166 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer configuring process stop reasons for manual processes note: if you delete a process stop reason and it is already assigned to a process, the process stop reason will be displayed with an asterisk next to it in the monitoring tab; see defining process monitoring in real-time designer on page 128 for details.
setting default process stop reasons (optional) when configuring process stop reasons, you may specify which reasons should be set as the default ones applied to each process.
these will then be displayed in the desktop work tracker client (see using the desktop work tracker client on page 178 for details).
however, if you change the default process stop reasons on a per-process basis in the business logic, the default process stop reasons displayed will differ from process to process.
to change the default process stop reasons 1.
in the list of process stop reasons, select the checkboxes of the reasons you wish to set as default.
the maximum number of default reasons is limited to five.
2. click apply to save your changes.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 167 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer configuring a manual process (desktop work tracker) configuring a manual process (desktop work tracker) manual processes are an integral feature of desktop work tracker and are designed to allow you to manually insert processes into the system from your desktop.
this section describes how to set up and configure a manual process.
you will not need to define any tasks for manual processes, since the tasks are created in the background and defined automatically.
to configure a manual process for monitoring in real-time designer: 1. click the business logic module tab.
2. in the processes tree, select manual processes and then click .
or right click manual processes and select add > new manual process from the popup menu: a new manual process is added to the tree.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 168 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer configuring a manual process (desktop work tracker) 3.
rename the process.
note: if a queue tag is not specified, the process name must have 64 or fewer characters and must not include spaces or tabs.
4. define the properties of the process: a. define the queue tag value.
the queue tag provides a means to categorize the process.
for example, because handling emails is a generic activity, you may want to categorize the emails being handled by type, such as claims-related emails, request-related emails and so on.
in a wfm environment, different types of emails are automatically handled separately.
in order to provide information to the wfm system in the most usable form, you also want to categorize emails by type, so that email handling time for different email types can be counted separately.
using queue tags can help differentiate between the various contexts of the usage of a process.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 169 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer configuring a manual process (desktop work tracker) note: if specified, a queue tag must have 64 or fewer characters and must not include spaces or tabs.
this limitation is required when sending process information to workforce management (wfm).
if the process information is not being sent to wfm and you require more than 64 characters in the queue tag, use a text business entity in the queue tag instead of a static value.
the business entity and its initial value can include more than 64 characters.
b.
for our scenario, select business entities > message orientation in the drop-down list.
the message orientation value means that the email type can be determined directly from the email itself.
in effect, this selection extracts the prefix of the email address in the to field of an email, up to the @ sign in the address.
the extracted prefix is then used to tag (categorize) emails by type, so that email handling time for different email types can be counted separately.
c. define the timeout after value by checking its checkbox and then assigning a numeric value in the adjacent box.
this field enables you to specify a timeout value, in seconds, that once reached, terminates the process.
this field is optional and is useful if the standard stop trigger does not occur or is never reached.
if this option is not checked and there is no value assigned to it, the default timeout value will be according to the real-time designer settings (3600 seconds).
however, if you assign a value in the process, it will override the timeout configured in the settings.
5. specify the linked data collection activity value.
note: when you select data collection in the process properties, the activate and collect functions are triggered behind the scenes when the process’s stop trigger is triggered.
6. click the down arrow in the linked data collection activity field to define its value.
only one data collection activity can be selected.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 170 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer configuring a manual process (desktop work tracker) note: for details about how to define data collection, see defining data collection in the real-time designer user guide, 7.
in the success measure area, select measure value and data source.
the success measure area enables you to specify a measure value, thereby providing additional performance information for that process.
the process handling time, in seconds, is the default measure value set.
alternatively any decimal business entity can be set.
8. select the measure option and then click in the measure field.
9. select any decimal business entity as a data source for the measure value.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 171 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer configuring a manual process (desktop work tracker) 10.
enter a short description for the measure value.
this will be the measure type shown in the reports.
note: the sum of all percentage values is always 100%.
11.
repeat step 7 through step 10 for each measure.
you are now ready to define the process stop reasons.
note: the administrator configures all of the relevant stop reasons using the desktop work tracker, and specifies which reasons should be the default ones (see configuring process stop reasons for manual processes on page 164 for details) however, you may change the default stop reasons for each process accordingly to the logical choice.. 12.
in the stop reasons field, select the reasons that should be assigned to this process.
note: if a stop reason was deleted during the configuration process, it will be displayed with an asterisk and you will not be able to assign it to the process.
see configuring process stop reasons for manual processes on page 164 for details.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 172 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer configuring activities configuring activities desktop work tracker provides organization employees with a tool for defining the reasons why an agent leaves their desk when handling a manual process, which enables management to track agent activity and application usage on manual processes.
the activities feature does not include any default activities, which enables the administrator to set relevant activities according their organizational needs, for example, coffee break, lunch break, and so forth.
note: if you do not set any activities in the desktop work tracker, the only activity the agent will be able to choose is "activity."
because multiple users may be accessing the system at the same time, you may want to refresh the list of activities before making changes.
the reasons will be displayed alphabetically in the setup but according to their defaults in the selection.
to add, edit or delete activities: 1. in the administration module tree, navigate to desktop process monitor > desktop work tracker and select the activities tab.
real-time designer displays the current activities in alphabetical order.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 173 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer configuring activities 2.
click .
a row is added to the list of activities.
3. enter an activity in the new row.
the activity name should not exceed 25 characters.
4. enter additional activities, or click apply to save your changes.
real-time designer will display a notification asking that your changes were applied successfully.
the activities will then be displayed in the monitoring tab according to their defaults in the selection.
5. to edit an existing activity, select it, modify the name and click apply to save your changes.
real-time designer will display a notification confirming that your changes were applied successfully.
6. to delete an existing reason, select a reason from the list (or select multiple reasons by holding down your mouse) and click .
7. when asked to confirm the deletion, click yes to delete.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 174 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer configuring activities default reason if there is no defined activity, real-time designer is pre-configured with one default reason, "paused work".
this reason will not be displayed in the real-time designer or in desktop work tracker client.
when no activities are defined, if the agent clicks the activity button in the desktop work tracker client, all active processes are placed on hold (pause state), no popup is displayed, and the agent is informed that they are in an off-desktop state.
when the agent clicks resume, they are returned to an active status.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 175 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer customizing the desktop work tracker client look-and-feel customizing the desktop work tracker client look-and-feel when setting up the desktop work tracker client, the implementer can customize the look-and-feel by selecting a color scheme and incorporating a customized icon in the agent callout.
there are two methods for implementing a custom look-and feel: in the designer settings: use the settings to determine the optimal color scheme and icon setup in the rtam client silent installation: this is the customized look-and-feel you will then implement throughout your organization.
to customize the desktop work tracker client in the real-time designer settings: 1. open the real-time designer and navigate to the real-time designer system settings window.
2. open real-time client > desktop work tracker.
3. click the skin name parameter and select from one of the nine color scheme options (the default is the ocean skin, which is black with white text).
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 176 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer customizing the desktop work tracker client look-and-feel 4.
click the icon name parameter and select an .ico file to be used in the agent callout (for example, your organization's logo).
important!
the icon you upload in the customized callout must be saved on a shared online folder - do not upload an icon that is stored in a local machine, because the image will not be saved and shared.
note: to ensure that the icon you upload fits properly, it is recommended to use a graphic designer to prepare the icon to fit the callout window.
to customize the desktop work tracker client in the rtam client silent (unattended) installation: 1. in the installation command line, specify the following: a. the color of the callout skin.
b.
the name of the ico icon file and its online shared folder.
msiexec /i
"c:\users\administrator\desktop\rtam\nice rtam upgrade r6.4.0.msi" skin=gray icon=\\{network_share}\{folder_name}\file.ico.
note: if you use a skin color of two words (for example, light blue), the skin color name should appear between quotation marks: skin=”light blue”.
if you use a skin color of one word (for example, gray), the skin color name should be listed without any quotation marks.
for more information about the silent installation, see unattended (silent) installation on page 39.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 177 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer using the desktop work tracker client using the desktop work tracker client the desktop work tracker client is a feature in the real-time client that tracks your activity while you handle processes on your desktop.
this functionality is triggered automatically when you log into your desktop, but only if your administrator has defined manual processes that require tracking (automatic processes are tracked automatically).
the desktop work tracker client provides two main functionalities: adding processes to your work tracker and then tracking their activity.
managing down-times when you are not handling processes.
note: there is a configuration option to allow employees to set their off-desktop activity only (and not allow them to handle processes).
see performing additional miscellaneous configurations on page 161.
starting processes on desktop work tracker to start processes: 1. log into your desktop.
desktop work tracker pops up on your desktop.
2. from the select dropdown, select one of the manual processes, or if you know the name of your process, type the process name.
all processes that include the search string appear.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 178 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer using the desktop work tracker client 3.
in the field next to the process name, enter a unique identification for the process (according to your organization's guidelines).
the minimum and maximum uid length is configurable.
4. click to add the process to your process list and to activate it (this button is disabled until you enter a unique identification of the correct length.
5. repeat steps 2 through 4 to add additional processes (the maximum number of processes you can add is determined by your administrator).
6. if you reach the maximum number of processes allowed, you will need to stop and then stop one of the existing processes in order to add a new one (see activating, pausing, and stopping processes below for details).
activating, pausing, and stopping processes whenever you add a new process to desktop work tracker, that process is set as the active process,.
only one process can be active at any given time, because this tracking tool is based on your current activity, the rest of the processes are paused automatically.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 179 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer using the desktop work tracker client to activate and pause processes: 1. to activate a process, click .
2. to pause a process, click .
this will automatically pause the previously-active process and change the current process to an active status.
to stop a process: 1. to stop a process click .
desktop work tracker displays the stop process reason window.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 180 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer using the desktop work tracker client note: the stop reasons displayed are determined by your administrator and may differ from process to process.
2. select the reason why you are stopping the process.
3. click stop process.
selecting an activity (with processes enabled) the desktop work tracker client enables you to manage the down-times when you are not handling processes using the desktop work tracker activity feature.
to select an activity: 1. in the main desktop work tracker window, click activity.
desktop work tracker displays the activity selection window, which enables you to specify why you are pausing the processes.
the reasons displayed are determined by your administrator.
2. select the reason you are pausing all processes, and click confirm.
the window closes and displays the desktop work tracker, which now shows the notification "you are currently in <x> activity.
click end activity to continue working."
the information on your activity is then sent to the database for analysis.
note: if there are is only one activity defined in your organization, the activity window will not be displayed, and the desktop work tracker client will simply display an activity notification.
3. when you return to your desktop, click end activity to resume the last process that was active when you went off duty.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 181 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer using the desktop work tracker client note: if the real-time client is turned off, all of the processes in your desktop work tracker are stopped automatically using the "shutdown" reason, and the data will be sent to the database.
if a process reaches its pre-configured time-out, the process will be stopped automatically using the "time-out" reason, and the data will be sent to the database.
selecting an activity (with no processes enabled) the desktop work tracker client enables you to select activities using the desktop work tracker activity feature.
when only the activities are enabled (and the processes are disabled) the activities appear directly in the desktop work tracker window.
to select an activity: 1. in the main desktop work tracker window, select an activity and then click start activity.
the window now shows the notification "your are currently in the <x> activity.
click 'end activity' to continue working.
the information on your activity is then sent to the database for analysis.
2. when you return to your desktop, click end activity.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 182 - 6: application and process monitoring in real-time designer using the desktop work tracker client configuring the location of the desktop work tracker on your desktop desktop work tracker is configured to remain active throughout your work session.
to pin the window to a certain part of your screen, click the to minimize the window to the bottom right of your screen, click icon. .
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 183 -
[this page intentionally left blank] 7:desktop analytics reports this section describes how to work with and use desktop analytics reports.
overview - working with reports accessing desktop analytics reports selecting filter parameters about the desktop analytics reports drill-down functionality desktop application analytics reports desktop process analytics reports desktop work tracker reports troubleshooting the desktop analytics reports 7 contents 186 187 190 194 196 221 283 315 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 185 - 7: desktop analytics reports overview - working with reports overview - working with reports this chapter describes how to read the reports and describes the information that each report contains.
the reports can be accessed through the intranet site using the url http://<cognos ip or fqdn>//ibmcognos/bi. note: to schedule the desktop analytics reports, and to filter the scheduled desktop analytics reports, see the cognos documentation, available from the cognos help.
after generating reports, you can then drill-down into the reports to view information on a specific issue, such as process, application, and more.
when you drill down, the filters and selections that are displayed at the top of the report are for the drilled report and not the main report.
the reports do not include a back/undo option.
note: the group hierarchy levels are set up in the database during the installation process.
the group names have default settings, and when you import users into the system, each group is assigned to one of the levels.
this can be changed in the database configuration, but should be done after installation and before you run any reports solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 186 - 7: desktop analytics reports accessing desktop analytics reports accessing desktop analytics reports this section describes how to access the desktop analytics reports.
to access the desktop analytics reports through the cognos site: 1. open the cognos server on the intranet site using the url http://<rtserver>/ibmcognos/bi.
the ibm cognos nice analytics page is displayed.
2. in the nice analyst workspace page, click my home and then navigate to public folders.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 187 - 7: desktop analytics reports accessing desktop analytics reports 3. to access the following reports, click desktop application analytics reports: application usage report employee productivity report 4. to access the following reports, click desktop process analytics reports: application path analysis report application usage in process process duration analysis process utilization total work item handling duration solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 188 - 7: desktop analytics reports accessing desktop analytics reports solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 189 - 7: desktop analytics reports selecting filter parameters selecting filter parameters the following filters are relevant to most desktop analytics reports, while report-specific filters are documented in the relevant reports.
all of the filters detailed below are mandatory and must be completed before running the report.
step 1: selecting a time period all desktop analytics reports are based on a specified time period, which enables you to select from two date options: standard and custom.
select a report time period according to the options below and then continue to the next step: standard: this is the default setting; when selecting this date option you will then need to select the "from" date, for example, yesterday, week to date and so forth.
the date for the report will then be from the selected date to today's date.
custom: when selecting this date option, you will then need to specify the start and end dates for the report by entering the dates in the start date and end date fields, or by selecting the date from dynamic calendars.
step 2: selecting a data hub in organizations that have more than one data hub (a hub of centralized data), you will first need to select a data hub from the dropdown list.
selecting a data hub will automatically display the group/employee selection option.
organizations that do not have multiple data hubs will only show the group/employee selection option.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 190 - 7: desktop analytics reports selecting filter parameters step 3: selecting groups and employees after selecting a data hub (in companies with multiple hubs) or in companies with single data hubs, the next step is to specify whether to include all available groups and employees in the report (the default), or to select specific groups and employees.
to select groups and employees: 1. if you select all groups/employees, continue to step 4: specifying the hierarchy presentation on the next page.
otherwise, select specific groups/employees.
2. in the group selection pane, select one or more groups and then click update employees.
the employees listed in the employee selection pane change to only those employees that belong to the groups you specified: solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 191 - 7: desktop analytics reports selecting filter parameters 3.
in the employee selection pane, select only the employees you wish to include in the report.
otherwise, leave the selection blank, and then all the employees in the list will be included in the report.
step 4: specifying the hierarchy presentation the hierarchy presentation filter enables you to select the granularity of the data to be presented in the report.
note: this filter is not relevant for the application path analysis report or the process utilization - multiple processes report.
group: displays the average data for predefined groups.
groups are the highest level in the hierarchy.
team: displays the average data for predefined teams.
the data displayed is the average data for each team.
employee: displays the data for each individual employee.
to specify the hierarchy presentation: 1. in the hierarchy presentation section, click the display report results by dropdown to display the different levels: 2. select the level for which you wish to display the report results.
note: the higher the level you select, the more detailed the report.
next: continue with the report-specific filters to generate the required report, and then run the reports.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 192 - 7: desktop analytics reports selecting filter parameters refining the report clicking the run report where you can redefine the report parameters.
in the upper right-hand toolbar will return you to the report definition, solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 193 - about the desktop analytics reports drill-down functionality 7: desktop analytics reports about the desktop analytics reports drill- down functionality when defining the desktop analytics reports, employees are filtered at the definition stage for each report.
after running the report, if you play or select the presentation level, you will save the same data on the selected groups and employees throughout the filtered hierarchy.
when you drill down into a selected group using a drill-down link, you will then see the data on the employees of the selected group.
however, when you go back up again to the higher hierarchical level, you will not see the data of the original filters, but rather for the group for which you drilled down into the report.
here is how this works: 1. run a report, and then go to the bottom of the report and click the link of one of the processes displayed in the table.
the report is updated to show the results for a specific process and for a specific group.
in addition, the report now includes a hierarchy presentation dropdown, which lets you select to go back to the previous population selection or move down further into the team and employee levels.
2. select group c (team level 1) and then group ca (team level 2) until you reach user x. 3.
using the hierarchy presentation drop-down, select one level up (back to team level 2).
note that now you can only see a single team level 2 group whereas before there were more.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 194 - about the desktop analytics reports drill-down functionality 7: desktop analytics reports 4. select team level 1, and again, note that there is only one team level 1 team available.
5. to avoid this filtering, and to view all possible members of the selected population, use the hierarchy presentation dropdown selection instead.
note: clicking the run report redefine the report parameters.
however, pay attention that the latest changes you made to the report, in the other words the drill-down, are now reflected in the report definition selections, and you will need to change them to run the full report.
will return you to the report definition, where you can solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 195 - 7: desktop analytics reports desktop application analytics reports desktop application analytics reports this section details the desktop application analytics reports, which include the following: application usage report application usage report - business impact application usage report - defining and running analyzing the application usage report employee productivity report employee productivity report - business impact employee productivity report - defining and running analyzing the employee productivity report 197 198 199 201 208 209 210 213 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 196 - 7: desktop analytics reports application usage report application usage report the application usage report analyzes the applications and web pages used the most by employees.
use this report to view the total and average time spent by groups or employee, in selected applications and web pages.
note: the report displays specific information for the most-used applications only.
the number of applications reported is defined in the report filters.
all other applications are reported as an aggregate amount in a category called others.
the report displays specific information for applications/web pages that are mapped into display names.
unmapped applications are aggregated to application without display code.
next: application usage report - business impact on the next page application usage report - defining and running on page 199 analyzing the application usage report on page 201 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 197 - 7: desktop analytics reports application usage report - business impact application usage report - business impact the application usage report is used to analyze groups or employees usage of applications and web pages.
this is shown by comparing the amount of time spent on the most used applications.
the report shows the total amount of time for all groups/employees selected in the report filters, as well as the average time per use.
total application usage the total time provides insights on the most widely used applications and web pages.
knowing this information enables knowing which applications are important and to focus and prioritize applications when considering improvements and enhancements.
average time per use the average time per use provides insight into the average time spent on this application or web page per visit.
a short period of time per use may suggest that the application is very efficient, while a long period of time per use may indicate that the application should be investigated (for example, to see if the application is too complex, has low performance, or has a poor user experience design), which may lead to improvements in the application.
organizational hierarchy the organizational hierarchy allows you to further drill down to view results per group, which shows the percentage of usage per group.
click a group to display results for that group.
this is located on the left side of the screen and can be hidden or displayed.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 198 - 7: desktop analytics reports application usage report - defining and running application usage report - defining and running to run the application usage report: 1. in the cognos nice analyst workspace page click desktop application analytics reports and then select application usage.
2. define the standard (mandatory) filters for the report; see selecting filter parameters on page 190 for details.
3.
next, in the application selection section, select which applications should be included in the report.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 199 - 7: desktop analytics reports application usage report - defining and running note: if the application you select has been removed from the real-time designer (and is, therefore, out-of-date), the application name will also display the date when it became outdated.
4. in the applications display section, enter the number of top applications to display.
5. when you have completed the report filters and parameters, click run report.
next: analyzing the application usage report on the facing page.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 200 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the application usage report analyzing the application usage report the application usage report results enable you to analyze the applications and web pages that are used the most by employees.
the report enables you to view the total and average time spent by groups or employee, in selected applications and web pages.
note: an application whose mapping is out-of-date will be displayed with a light-gray bar.
when defining and running the report, these applications are denoted with the date when they became outdated.
updating the hierarchy presentation to change the level of the hierarchies displayed in the report result, from the hierarchy presentation dropdown, select a different level.
the report will be updated according to your selection.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 201 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the application usage report updating the top number of applications to display the top applications to display:
[x] field, enter the number of top applications you wish to display in the report and then click the refresh button to update the page results.
viewing report filters the filters you selected in the definition stage can be viewed by click the report filters arrow.
to view the current report filters, click the filters dropdown arrow.
the filters are displayed according to the selection you made: date range: if you selected custom in the definition stage, the data range will appear as either two dates separated by a hyphen, or one date (if you only specified a single day).
if you selected the standard date option, your selection (for example, yesterday) will appear in the range.
see step 1: selecting a time period on page 190 for details applications selection: displays the applications you selected.
data hub: if there are multiple data hubs in your system, the data hub you selected in the definition stage will appear her (see step 2: selecting a data hub on page 190).
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 202 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the application usage report group selection: displays the groups you selected in the employee selection filter (see step 3: selecting groups and employees on page 191).
employees:: displays the employees you specified in the employee selection filter (see step 3: selecting groups and employees on page 191).
refining the report clicking the run report where you can redefine the report parameters.
the information in the application usage report is displayed as described in the following sections: in the upper right-hand toolbar will return you to the report definition, application usage report total applications usage bar graph on the next page average time per use in process bar graph on page 244 application usage in process organizational hierarchy on page 246 application usage report summary table on page 207 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 203 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the application usage report application usage report total applications usage bar graph this graph presents a measurable comparison of application usage according to applications used.
the report displays the time or percentage of the selected population in the search for each application.
the graph shows the following: top applications used: the most used applications are each represented by a bar on the graph.
each bar displays the total time that the application was used by the selected population.
the applications are listed from top to bottom with the most used application on top.
the number of applications displayed is determined during the report definition process (see application usage in process report - defining and running on page 237).
amount of time used: the percentage of time that the selected groups, teams, or employees use each application.
this is displayed along the x-axis at the bottom of the graph.
hover information: hovering the mouse over the bars displays: the name of the application represented by the bar where the mouse is hovering.
the percentage of time the application was used by all of the selected population.
the rank of the application according to percentage of time used.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 204 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the application usage report application usage report average time per use bar graph this graph displays the average amount of time that an application was used by the selected population.
each bar represents an application, and displays the average time used.
this graph shows the following: top applications used: the most used applications are each represented by a bar in the graph.
each bar displays the average amount of time, per instance, that the application was used by the selected population.
for example, in the graph above, the selected groups used the real-time client for an average of seven seconds each time the application was used.
the applications are listed from top to bottom in the same order as presented in the total usage bar graph.
amount of time used: the average amount of time that the selected population use each application per instance.
this is displayed along the x-axis at the bottom of the graph.
hover information: hovering the mouse over a colored section of the graph displays: the name of the application represented by the bar where the mouse is hovering.
the average amount of time the application was used by the selected population per use.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 205 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the application usage report application usage report organizational hierarchy the organizational hierarchy allows you to further drill down to view results per group.
this selection controls the report resolution in terms of hierarchy.
set the table resolution to the selected hierarchy level: group: displays the average data for predefined groups.
groups are the highest level in the hierarchy.
team: displays the average data for predefined teams (there can be a number of team levels).the data displayed is the average data for each team.
employee: displays the data for each individual employee.
the report results show the percentage of total usage for this application for each level.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 206 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the application usage report application usage report summary table the summary table presents the statistics for each application in table form.
the table includes a column for each of the statistics presented in the graphs.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 207 - employee productivity report employee productivity report - business impact employee productivity report - defining and running analyzing the employee productivity report 7: desktop analytics reports employee productivity report 209 210 213 employee productivity measures the comparative productivity between groups/employees.
for the purposes of this report, applications are mapped to categories that are predefined by the organization (see defining desktop analytics categories per group on page 118 for details on how applications are mapped to categories).
for example, applications can be mapped into categories such as: productive: applications such as the microsoft word and microsoft excel may be included in this category.
unproductive: applications such as games.
work related: applications such as the calculator, which is used directly for work activities.
in addition, web pages can also be mapped into the predefined categories.
for example, the company website or wikipedia, if being used for research, may be mapped to the productive category, but facebook would be mapped to unproductive.
in addition to any predefined categories created by the organization, the following default categories are automatically available: uncategorized: the amount of time that the employee uses applications that are not mapped to a specific category.
business related: the amount of time that the employee uses applications that are related to their job (this category requires that applications/web pages be mapped into it).
the report also shows the activity states for employees or groups of employees: idle: the amount of time where no keyboard or mouse activity is detected for the employee.
locked: the amount of time where the employee is in a locked state.
the report shows how group/employees working time is distributed between the different application/web pages categories.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 208 - 7: desktop analytics reports employee productivity report - business impact employee productivity report - business impact the employee productivity report is used to analyze 100% of each employee’s time and show how the time is utilized.
per group or per employee.
this is shown in time-based and percentage-based bar graphs.
the time-based graph shows the average time that the employee spends in each category or activity state per day.
the percentage- based bar graph shows the percentage of time that each employee spends using applications in each category per day.
in addition, a time-based summary table and a percentage-based summary table are provided.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 209 - 7: desktop analytics reports employee productivity report - defining and running employee productivity report - defining and running to run the employee productivity report: 1. in the cognos nice analyst workspace page click desktop application analytics reports and then select employee productivity.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 210 - 7: desktop analytics reports employee productivity report - defining and running solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 211 - 7: desktop analytics reports employee productivity report - defining and running 2.
define the time unit in which to display the result: seconds, minutes, or hours.
3. define the standard (mandatory) filters for the report; see selecting filter parameters on page 190 for details.
4. optional: scroll down to the categories field.
5. type keywords in the keywords field, and then click the search button or press enter on your keyboard.
6. click the insert button to transfer the results from results pane to the choice pane.
use the keywords field and search button to search for specific categories.
use % as a wildcard in the category selection section to display all results.
note: in order to view the amount of time an employee was logged out of the system, you must search for and select other periods from the categories.
if other periods is not selected, it will not be displayed by default in the report results.
7. when you have completed the report filters and parameters, click run report.
8. continue with analyzing the report.
see analyzing the employee productivity report on the facing page.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 212 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the employee productivity report analyzing the employee productivity report the employee productivity report results enable comparative productivity between groups/employees by time or by percentage.
updating the hierarchy presentation to change the level of the hierarchies displayed in the report result, from the hierarchy presentation dropdown, select a different level.
the report will be updated according to your selection.
updating the report categories to change the categories displayed in the results, from the choose categories dropdown, select a different category (the default is all categories).
the report will be updated according to your selection.
changing the report time unit to change the report time unit (seconds, minutes or hours), from the time unit dropdown, select a different time unit.
the report will be updated according to your selection.
viewing report filters the filters you selected in the definition stage can be viewed by click the report filters arrow.
to view the current report filters, click the filters dropdown arrow.
the filters are displayed according to the selection you made: date range: if you selected custom in the definition stage, the data range will appear as either two dates separated by a hyphen, or one date (if you only specified a single day).
if you selected the standard date option, your selection (for example, yesterday) will appear in the range.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 213 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the employee productivity report see step 1: selecting a time period on page 190 for details category:
displays the categories you selected.
data hub: if there are multiple data hubs in your system, the data hub you selected in the definition stage will appear her (see step 2: selecting a data hub on page 190).
group selection: displays the groups you selected in the employee selection filter (see step 3: selecting groups and employees on page 191).
employees:: displays the employees you specified in the employee selection filter (see step 3: selecting groups and employees on page 191).
time unit: displays the time unit selected refining the report in the upper right-hand toolbar will return you to the report definition, clicking the run report where you can redefine the report parameters.
the information in the employee productivity report is displayed as described in the following sections: employee productivity report time-based bar graph on the facing page employee productivity report percentage-based bar graph on page 216 employee productivity report summary tables on page 217 running the application usage report on page 219 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 214 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the employee productivity report employee productivity report time-based bar graph this graph displays a measurable comparison of usage according to each predefined category.
this is displayed as the average time that an employee is using the applications selected in the filters.
the bar represents the average time that the employee uses these applications per day.
each color represents a predefined category.
compares the averages of each group or employee with other group or employees for a given time frame and category.
click the time button on the top right to display this graph.
the graph displays the following: organizational hierarchy: the groups, teams, and employees selected in the hierarchy filter (see step 4: specifying the hierarchy presentation on page 192).
this is shown on the y-axis.
time unit: the time duration for the selected categories and states displayed on the graph.
this is shown on the x-axis.
average: shows the average for the search population within the defined filters.
hover information: hovering the mouse over a colored section of the bars displays: the group, team, or employee whose productivity is represented by the bar where the mouse is hovering.
the amount of time that the employee uses applications that are mapped to the category represented by the color where the mouse is hovering.
standard colors represent a specific state (idle, locked) that the employee’s computer is in, or uncategorized applications: gray: uncategorized yellow: idle red: locked solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 215 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the employee productivity report employee productivity report percentage-based bar graph this graph displays a comparison of usage percentage by category out of the total time that an employee used the applications selected in the filters.
the bar represents 100% of the total time that the employee uses these applications.
each color represents a predefined category and displays the percentage of time spent by the employee in that category.
click the % button on the top right to display this graph.
the graph shows the following: organizational hierarchy: the groups, teams, and employees that are selected in the hierarchy filter (see step 4: specifying the hierarchy presentation on page 192).
these are listed in alphabetical order.
this is shown on the y-axis.
duration in percentagee: the percentage of time the group or employee use applications in any selected category.
this is shown on the x-axis.
hover information: hovering the mouse over a colored section of the bars displays: the group, team, or employee whose productivity is represented by the bar where the mouse is hovering.
the percentage of time that the employee used applications mapped to the category represented by the color where the mouse is hovering.
standard colors represent a specific state (idle, locked) that the employee’s computer was in or uncategorized: applications.
gray: uncategorized yellow: idle red: locked solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 216 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the employee productivity report employee productivity report summary tables the summary tables present the statistics in table form.
a time-based table and a percentage-based table are displayed.
note: if all categories were selected when filtering data for the report, then the total column should always display 24 hours or its equivalent in minutes/seconds.
the two summary tables contain the following information: time-based summary: displays the data for the average time that groups, teams, or employees used applications in each category.
percentage-based summary: displays the percentage of time that groups, teams, or employees used applications in any selected category.
time-based summary: percent-based summary: the following describes the information that appears in the employee productivity summary tables.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 217 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the employee productivity report location description the groups, teams, or employees presented in the report.
this is determined by the selections in the employee selection (see step 3: selecting groups and employees on page 191.
clicking a group name in the table is a drill-down action that shows a level deeper for the selected group.
if you change the hierarchy presentation, the report results will then show all of the organizational units at this level that are included in the search.
if the search population includes employees that are connected directly to hierarchy levels that are less deep, those levels will summarized as other levels.
the categories presented in the report.
this is determined by the selections in the category filter.
these categories are predefined by the customer and are mapped to the applications used by the employees (see step 4 in employee productivity report - defining and running on page 210).
the column head for the actual-time summary table also displays the time unit selected in the configuration filter (see step 2 in employee productivity report - defining and running on page 210).
the average for all of the selected groups, teams, or employees.
left column , top row all column headings- categories left column, bottom row average total for any report result in the summary tables, click this icon to open the application usage report in a new window.
see running the application usage report on the facing page for details.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 218 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the employee productivity report running the application usage report you can run the application usage report directly from this report without reverting back to nice analyst workspace.
the report filters for the employee productivity report are inherited to create the application usage report.
for example, the same date range; the selected hierarchy level; and the selected category.
the new report is opened in a new window in addition to the current report.
the default number of top applications displayed in the application usage report that is opened here is 100.
to open the application usage report: 1. in the employee productivity report summary table, select the group hierarchy for which you want to run the application usage report.
2. click the .
the application usage report opens.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 219 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the employee productivity report report filters the filters you selected in the definition stage can be viewed by click the report filters arrow.
to view the current report filters 1.
click the filters dropdown arrow.
the category you selected in the employee productivity report appears in the category field.
for more information about this report, see application usage report on page 197.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 220 - desktop process analytics reports this section details the desktop process analytics reports, which include the following: 7: desktop analytics reports desktop process analytics reports application path analysis report application path analysis report - business impact application path analysis report - defining and running analyzing the application path analysis report application usage in process report application usage in process report - business impact application usage in process report - defining and running analyzing the application usage in process report process duration analysis report process duration analysis report - business impact process duration analysis report - defining and running analyzing the process duration analysis report running the application usage in process report process utilization report process utilization report - business impact process utilization - defining and running analyzing the process utilization report total work item handling duration report total work item handling duration report - business impact total work item handling duration report - defining and running analyzing the total work item handling duration report 222 223 224 230 235 236 237 240 248 249 250 253 256 258 259 260 263 273 274 275 280 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 221 - 7: desktop analytics reports application path analysis report application path analysis report the application path analysis is a measure-based report that shows the optimal order of application usage when performing a process.
in this report, you can: view the different application paths employees used to performed a process view the commonality and average measure per a given path view a list of employees who used a given path solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 222 - 7: desktop analytics reports application path analysis report - business impact application path analysis report - business impact when handling work items, call center and back office employees may access many applications and web pages.
in order to increase employee productivity, it is important that employees handle work items with maximum efficiency and that it applications provide support to enable this efficiency.
the application path analysis report enables you to analyze the desktop activity of employees against defined measure values.
the application path analysis report provides a means of determining the best application path in order to maximize measure values, identify low performers who may require training, or identify it applications that may require improvements or enhancements.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 223 - 7: desktop analytics reports application path analysis report - defining and running application path analysis report - defining and running to run the application path analysis report: 1. in the cognos nice analyst workspace page click desktop process analytics reports and then select application path analysis.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 224 - 7: desktop analytics reports application path analysis report - defining and running 2.
define the standard (mandatory) filters for the report; see selecting filter parameters on page 190 for details.
3.
next, in the process selection field, click the field and from the dropdown list, select which process to run in the report comparison (this step is mandatory).
4. optional: scroll down to the queue tag selection field.
5. type keywords in the keywords field, and then click the search button or press enter on your keyboard.
6. click the insert button to transfer the results from the results pane to the choice pane.
use the keywords field and search button to search for specific queue tags.
use % as a wildcard in the queue tag selection section to display all results.
7. you may now select the applications to be included in the report.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 225 - 7: desktop analytics reports application path analysis report - defining and running a. in the applications selection section, specify whether you want the report to include all applications or specific applications.
b.
if you select specific applications, the application selection section expands and displays the exclude/include selection dropdown and the applications selection field.
c. in the exclude\include selection dropdown, select from one of the following options: include, exclude or none.
if you select none, the report will not be filtered according to the applications (regardless of the choice you made in the previous step).
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 226 - 7: desktop analytics reports application path analysis report - defining and running if you select include, the paths that include the applications you select in step d will be included in the report.
if you select exclude, the paths that include the applications you select in step d will be excluded from the report.
d. in the applications selection field, select the applications you wish to include or exclude from the report and then click update applications.
8. in the sorting section, select the sorting method and order.
path number: sort by the path id number measure value: sort according to the name of the value that is being measured.
the sorting in this case will be according to the numeric value (and the resulting column heading will indicate what is being measured).
commonality: sort according to the percentage of instances for this path.
the sort works in the following way: solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 227 - 7: desktop analytics reports application path analysis report - defining and running if the paths that are included in your report have a usage that is above the percentage you set here (the default is 0), then those paths will be included in the report.
paths that fall below the stated value will not be included in the report.
if all the paths are under the stated commonality there will be no results.
number of employees: sort according to the number of employees that are included in the filtered path.
9. in the path selection section, specify the following filters: note: the available paths that you specify in this step have already been filtered according to the applications selection filter you applied in step d. e. from the show dropdown list, select top, bottom, or range and then specify the percentage from the dropdown field below it.
note: the show filter lets you set the range of paths that should be included in the report according to the percentage you set in the field.
this filter allows you to specify the top x% or bottom x% or a range of percentages.
f. if you select range, the report setup changes to enable you to specify a range from 100% to 10%:
g. next, in the top x application path to display filter, specify the maximum number of paths to display out of the total number (assuming there are enough paths from which to filter).
h. next, specify the include application paths with commonality above filter.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 228 - 7: desktop analytics reports application path analysis report - defining and running note: this commonality filter is an optional field that is set in percentages.
see step 8 for details.
10.
when you have completed the report filters and parameters, click run report.
next: analyzing the report (see analyzing the application path analysis report on the next page).
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 229 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the application path analysis report analyzing the application path analysis report the application path analysis report results enable you to analyze the desktop activity of employees against defined measure values in order to determine the most efficient application path.
this path will then enable you to determine how to achieve the maximum value for this measure.
the report result displays the following information: path id: the id assigned to this specific path by the cognos server.
commonality: the percentage of instances for each path, the commonality works in the following way: if the paths that are included in your report have a usage that is above the percentage you set here (the default is 0), then those paths will be included in the report.
paths that fall below the stated value will not be included in the report.
if all the paths are under the stated commonality there will be no results.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 230 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the application path analysis report measure value: the second column contains the name of the measure value (as defined by the company) and the relevant measurement for that value.
in the example above, the measurement is duration in seconds.
this information is provided in percentages because in very large results, it is easier to compare percentages rather than numbers.
number of employees: the number of employees that are included in this path (see viewing specific employee information below).
path data: the applications that are included in the path.
viewing specific employee information to view specific information about an employee: 1. in the number of employees column, click the employee number link to display specific data on the employees included in the path: the information in this drill-down screen includes the employee name, duration in seconds and standard deviation (sd).
note: if there is more than one instance of a specific path, the report will show the standard deviation per employee (sd), otherwise this column will remain empty.
2. to view the applications that are included in this path for the selected employees, click the applications in the selected path
dropdown: solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 231 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the application path analysis report viewing report filters the filters you selected in the definition stage can be viewed by click the report filters arrow.
to view the current report filters, click the filters dropdown arrow.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 232 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the application path analysis report the filters are displayed according to the selection you made: date range: if you selected custom in the definition stage, the data range will appear as either two dates separated by a hyphen, or one date (if you only specified a single day).
if you selected the standard date option, your selection (for example, yesterday) will appear in the range.
see step 1: selecting a time period on page 190 for details process selection: displays the process you selected.
queue tag: displays the queue tags you selected.
sort by: displays the sorting option you selected.
sort order: displays the sorting order you selected (ascending or descending).
data hub: if there are multiple data hubs in your system, the data hub you selected in the definition stage will appear her (see step 2: selecting a data hub on page 190).
group selection: displays the groups you selected in the employee selection filter (see step 3: selecting groups and employees on page 191).
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 233 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the application path analysis report employees:: displays the employees you specified in the employee selection filter (see step 3: selecting groups and employees on page 191).
path selection filters: top selection: displays the selection you made regarding path selection range - top, bottom, or range of results.
top percentage: displays the selection you made in the percentage field.
include/exclude: displays your selection regarding the path exclusion/inclusion.
apps to include/exclude: displays the applications you chose to include or exclude.
refining the report clicking the run report where you can redefine the report parameters.
in the upper right-hand toolbar will return you to the report definition, solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 234 - 7: desktop analytics reports application usage in process report application usage in process report the application usage in process report analyzes the usage of applications and web pages when working on a given process.
using this report, you can view the total and average time spent by groups or by employees in using selected applications and web pages while working on a process.
note: the report displays specific information for the most used applications only.
the number of applications reported is defined in the report filters.
all other applications are reported as an aggregate amount in a category called others.
the report displays specific information for applications and web pages that are mapped into display names.
unmapped applications are aggregated to the application without display code.
next: application usage in process report - business impact on the next page application usage in process report - defining and running on page 237 analyzing the application usage in process report on page 240 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 235 - 7: desktop analytics reports application usage in process report - business impact application usage in process report - business impact the application usage in process report is used for analyzing group or employee usage of applications and web sites when working on a given process.
the report compares the amount of time spent on the most used applications, and then shows the percentage of time for all of the groups and employees that were selected in the report filters as well as the average time per use.
percentage of time the total time provides insight on the most used applications.
knowing this information enables, on the one hand, to determine the important applications and to then focus on and prioritize these applications when considering improvements and enhancements.
on the other hand, knowing which applications have low usage also provides important information into potential investigate of these applications, to check whether these applications: are either difficult to use (or not intuitive), and require improvement do not provide value so that future investment in them should be discontinued there is a lack of awareness in the organization regarding these applications and their value average time per use the average time per use parameter provides insight on the average time spent on an application or web page per visit.
a short time may serve as an indication for a very efficient application while a long time may provide an indication of a required investigation or improvement (for example, to check whether the process is too complicated, offers low performance, or provides a poor user experience).
organizational hierarchy the organizational hierarchy allows you to further drill down to view results per group.
the percentage of usage per group is displayed.
click a group to display results for that group.
this is located on the left side of the screen and can be hidden or displayed.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 236 - application usage in process report - defining and running 7: desktop analytics reports application usage in process report - defining and running to run the application usage in process report: 1. in the cognos nice analyst workspace page click desktop process analytics reports and then select application usage in process.
2. define the standard (mandatory) filters for the report; see selecting filter parameters on page 190 for details.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 237 - application usage in process report - defining and running 7: desktop analytics reports 3.
next, in the process selection field, click the field and from the dropdown list, select which process to run in the report comparison (this step is mandatory).
4. optional: scroll down to the queue tag selection field.
5. type keywords in the keywords field, and then click the search button or press enter on your keyboard.
6. click the insert button to transfer the results from results pane to the choice pane.
use the keywords field and search button to search for specific queue tags.
use % as a wildcard in the queue tag selection section to display all results.
7.
next, select in the application selection section, select which applications should be included in the report.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 238 - application usage in process report - defining and running 7: desktop analytics reports note: if the application you select has been removed from the real-time designer (and is, therefore, out-of-date), the application name will also display the date when it became outdated.
8. in the application display section, enter the number of top applications to display.
the default number of top applications is 5. 9.
when you have completed the report filters and parameters, click run report.
10. continue with analyzing the report.
see analyzing the application usage in process report on the next page.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 239 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the application usage in process report analyzing the application usage in process report the application usage in process report results shows the relative usage of applications and web pages when working on a given process.
note: an application whose mapping is out-of-date will be displayed with a light-gray bar.
when defining and running the report, these applications are denoted with the date when they became outdated.
updating the hierarchy presentation to change the level of the hierarchies displayed in the report result, from the hierarchy presentation dropdown, select a different level.
the report will be updated according to your selection.
updating the top number of applications to display in the top applications to display: [x] field, enter the number of top applications you wish to display in the report and then click the refresh button to update the page results.
refining the report clicking the run report where you can redefine the report parameters.
in the upper right-hand toolbar will return you to the report definition, solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 240 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the application usage in process report the information in the average application usage report is displayed in the following sections: average time per use in process bar graph on page 244 application usage in process summary table on page 247 application usage report organizational hierarchy on page 206 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 241 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the application usage in process report total application usage in process bar graph this report analyzes the applications employees used the most in each process.
the percentage of time for each group, team, or employee spends in each of these states is presented.
this graph is located at the middle of the screen as shown below.
note: an application whose mapping is out-of-date will be displayed with a light-gray bar.
when defining and running the report, these applications are denoted with the date when they became outdated.
top x used applications: the most used applications are each represented by a bar on the graph.
each bar displays the total time that the application was used by all of the groups, teams, or employees selected in the filter.
the applications are listed from top to bottom with the most used application on top.
the number of applications displayed is determined during the definition stage (see application usage in process report - defining and running on page 237).
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 242 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the application usage in process report amount of time used: the percentage of time that the selected groups, teams, or employees use each application.
this is displayed along the x-axis at the bottom of the graph.
hover information: hovering the mouse over the bars displays: the name of the application represented by the bar where the mouse is hovering.
the percentage of time the application was used by all of the selected groups, teams, or employees.
the rank of the application according to percentage of time used.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 243 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the application usage in process report average time per use in process bar graph this graph shows the average time applications are used for a single process.
the data shows an aggregate average for all of the groups, teams, or employees included in the report.
each report page represents a process.
this graph shows the following: application.
each bar on the graph represents an application used by a group or team member.
duration: the average amount of time (in seconds) that the selected groups, teams, or employees used each application during the process.
note: average time = total time in the application divided by the number of instances this application was made active.
the colored sections represent the applications included in the report.
this is displayed along the x-axis at the bottom of the graph.
hover information: hovering the mouse over a colored section of the graph displays: the name of the application represented by the color where the mouse is hovering.
the average time the application, represented by the color where the mouse is hovering, was used in the process.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 244 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the application usage in process report use the top applications to display field at the top of the report to update the number of top applications you wish to display in the report.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 245 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the application usage in process report application usage in process organizational hierarchy this selection controls the report resolution in terms of hierarchy.
set the table resolution to the selected hierarchy level: group: displays the average data for predefined groups.
groups are the highest level in the hierarchy.
team: displays the average data for predefined teams (there can be a number of team levels).the data displayed is the average data for each team.
employee: displays the data for each individual employee.
the report results show the percentage of total usage for this application per process for each level.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 246 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the application usage in process report application usage in process summary table the summary table presents the statistics in table form.
this table is located at the bottom of the report as shown below.
the following describes the information that appears in the average application usage summary table.
column description application displays the applications selected for this report.
page name displays the page name of the application.
data columns includes the following information: average time per use in seconds for each application percentage of application usage for each application - this is the percentage of the page usage for this application (so the subtotal for the application is always 100%) percentage of total usage for each application - the usage percentage of the application or page out of the total search results solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 247 - 7: desktop analytics reports process duration analysis report process duration analysis report the process duration analysis report compares the average time it takes for groups/employees to complete processes.
this report analyzes processes handled by groups/employees, shows the average process duration for each process type, and performs comparisons between different groups/employees.
the analysis of process inefficiencies that require further investigation is done using the process utilization report (see process utilization report on page 258).
next: process duration analysis report - business impact on the facing page process duration analysis report - defining and running on page 250 analyzing the process duration analysis report on page 253 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 248 - 7: desktop analytics reports process duration analysis report - business impact process duration analysis report - business impact the process duration analysis report compares the average process duration across multiple groups.
this report analyzes process duration by enabling the comparison between groups or employees and for process types.
a process duration comparison between groups/employees enables the comparison of groups/employees against an expected standard and to detect deviations (either positive or negative).
using this report, it is possible to detect groups/employees who execute processes relatively slowly, and may require additional training to be more efficient in the execution of the process.
the report also enables to detect groups that perform processes faster, and this information can then be used as a means of improving the functionality of other groups/employees.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 249 - process duration analysis report - defining and running 7: desktop analytics reports process duration analysis report - defining and running to run the process duration analysis report: 1. in the cognos nice analyst workspace page click desktop process analytics reports and then select process duration analysis.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 250 - process duration analysis report - defining and running 7: desktop analytics reports 2. define the standard (mandatory) filters for the report; see selecting filter parameters on page 190 for details.
3. define the time unit in which to display the results: seconds, minutes, or hours.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 251 - process duration analysis report - defining and running 7: desktop analytics reports 4.
next, in the process selection section, select a process for comparison.
5. optional: scroll down to the queue tag selection field 6. type keywords in the keywords field, and then click the search button or press enter on your keyboard.
7. click the insert button to transfer the results from results pane to the choice pane.
use the keywords field and search button to search for specific queue tags.
use % as a wildcard in the queue tag selection section to display all results.
8.
when you have completed the report filters and parameters, click run report.
next: analyzing the process duration analysis report on the facing page.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 252 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the process duration analysis report analyzing the process duration analysis report the process duration analysis report compares the average process duration across multiple groups.
this report analyzes process duration by enabling the comparison between groups or employees and for process types.
results the report result displays the average process duration by employee ( or group).
the employees or groups that are being compared appear along the y-axis and the time duration appears along the x- axis.
in addition, results are displayed in a summary table: solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 253 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the process duration analysis report the process instance and average duration is listed per employee or group updating the hierarchy presentation to change the level of the hierarchies displayed in the report result, from the hierarchy presentation dropdown, select a different level.
the report will be updated according to your selection.
changing the report time unit to change the report time unit (seconds, minutes or hours), from the time unit dropdown, select a different time unit.
the report will be updated according to your selection.
viewing report filters the filters you selected in the definition stage can be viewed by click the report filters arrow.
to view the current report filters, click the filters dropdown arrow.
the filters are displayed according to the selection you made (see step 1: selecting a time period on page 190): date range: if you selected custom in the definition stage, the data range will appear as either two dates separated by a hyphen, or one date (if you only specified a single day).
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 254 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the process duration analysis report if you selected the standard date option, your selection (for example, yesterday) will appear in the range.
time unit: the time unit in which the results are displayed.
queue tag: the queue tags you selected will be displayed group selection: the groups you selected in the employee selection filter (see step 3: selecting groups and employees on page 191).
employees: the employees you specified in the employee selection filter (see step 3: selecting groups and employees on page 191).
process selection: the process for comparison that you specified in the process selection filter (see step 4 in process duration analysis report - defining and running on page 250 for details).
refining the report clicking the run report where you can redefine the report parameters.
in the upper right-hand toolbar will return you to the report definition, solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 255 - 7: desktop analytics reports running the application usage in process report running the application usage in process report you can run the application usage in process report directly from this report without reverting back to nice analyst workspace.
the report filters for the process duration analysis report are inherited to create the application usage in process report.
for example, the same date range, specific process, and the selected group hierarchy.
the new report is opened in a new window in addition to the current report.
the default number of top applications displayed in the application usage in process report that is opened here is 100.
to open the application usage in process report: 1. in the process duration analysis report summary table, select the group hierarchy for which you want to run the application usage in process report.
2. click the .
the application usage in process report opens.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 256 - 7: desktop analytics reports running the application usage in process report solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 257 - 7: desktop analytics reports process utilization report process utilization report the process utilization report analyzes processes and provides insight into how much time out of the total process time was utilized for actual work.
the report enables comparing between processes by presenting for each process the percentage of the process time that was spent on the different process states: net time: the actual work on the process hold time: the process was on hold while the employee was engaged in another activity idle time: the employee was not active while working on the process lock time: the employee's desktop was locked while working on the process next: process utilization report - business impact on the facing page process utilization - defining and running on page 260 analyzing the process utilization report on page 263 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 258 - 7: desktop analytics reports process utilization report - business impact process utilization report - business impact the report is based on a comparison and analysis of processes, which enables the user to understand which processes are more utilized (high net time) and which processes are less utilized (low net time).
this report also enables you to compare how different groups utilize a specific process.
the process utilization report enables you to determine two important factors: the utilization of a process compared to other processes the utilization of a groups using the same process there are four available states for each process: net time: the net time during which users are using the process hold time: the time during which users place the process on hold, for example, a process may be put on hold in order to allow the user to obtain additional information idle time: this is the time during which the user is not using the process at all lock time: this is the time when the user places their computer on lock the main objective for each process is to maximize the net time and minimize other states, since this means that the employee is actually working on the process, and to ensure that the other statuses - such as hold and idle - are minimized to avoid the employee from switching out of the process.
processes with lower net percentage are indications of processes that should, potentially, be investigated to understand the root cause for why employees are spending time in other states of the process.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 259 - 7: desktop analytics reports process utilization - defining and running process utilization - defining and running to run the process utilization report: 1. in the cognos nice analyst workspace page click desktop process analytics reports and then select process utilization.
2. define the standard (mandatory) filters for the report; see selecting filter parameters on page 190 for details.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 260 - 7: desktop analytics reports process utilization - defining and running 3.
next, in the process selection section, select the type of comparison you wish to create: a comparison between processes (multiple processes), or a comparison of groups within a single process (single process) 4.
if you select multiple processes, continue with step 5 below; otherwise, continue to step 6 .
5.
the select a process field becomes populated with the available processes.
in this field, select the checkboxes of two or more processes or click select all to select all available processes.
if you select single process, the select a process dropdown list becomes enabled.
6. click the field and select which process to run in the report.
7. additionally, selecting a single process also displays the hierarchy presentation field, which you will need to specify for a single process report (see step 4: specifying the hierarchy presentation on page 192 for details).
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 261 - 8.
optional: scroll down to the queue tag selection field.
7: desktop analytics reports process utilization - defining and running 9.
type keywords in the keywords field, and then click the search button or press enter on your keyboard.
10.
click the insert button to transfer the results from results pane to the choice pane.
use the keywords field and search button to search for specific queue tags.
use % as a wildcard in the queue tag selection section to display all results.
11.
when you have completed the report filters and parameters, click run report.
12. continue with analyzing the report.
see analyzing the process utilization report on the facing page solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 262 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the process utilization report analyzing the process utilization report the process utilization report results enable you to compare and see which processes have the maximum efficiency of use - the maximum net time during which a process is in use.
similarly, the group or level comparison option is designed to let you see how groups compare in their use of a single process, in order to obtain information about efficiency between groups.
the results in this report depend on the selection you made in the definition stage.
this means that the report results display the percentages of the process states by comparing the processes themselves or the group states for a single process.
therefore, this report creates two reports that enable you to track process utilization: process utilization - analyzing the multiple processes report on page 265 process utilization - analyzing the single process/multiple group report on page 269 viewing report filters the filters you selected in the definition stage can be viewed by click the report filters arrow.
to view the current report filters, click the filters dropdown arrow.
the filters are displayed according to the selection you made: date range: if you selected custom in the definition stage, the data range will appear as either two dates separated by a hyphen, or one date (if you only specified a single day).
if you selected the standard date option, your selection (for example, yesterday) will appear in the range.
see step 1: selecting a time period on page 190 for details.
queue tag: displays the queue tags you selected.
data hub: if there are multiple data hubs in your system, the data hub you selected in the definition stage will appear her (see step 2: selecting a data hub on page 190).
group selection: displays the groups you selected in the employee selection filter (see step 3: selecting groups and employees on page 191).
employees:: displays the employees you specified in the employee selection filter (see step 3: selecting groups and employees on page 191).
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 263 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the process utilization report process selection: displays the process you selected in step 5 in process utilization - defining and running on page 260.
refining the report clicking the run report where you can redefine the report parameters.
in the upper right-hand toolbar will return you to the report definition, solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 264 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the process utilization report process utilization - analyzing the multiple processes report if you select multiple processes, the report result will display the percentage of process states - comparison by process results: the report shows the percentage of each state (idle time, net time, hold time, and lock time).
the available states are displayed in the legend to the right of the results.
at the bottom of the results, you will see a table that shows the percentage for each state for each process.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 265 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the process utilization report to change the report and get additional information: 1. to view the results for a specific state, from the process states dropdown list at the top of the report, select a state.
the report displays the percentages for the selected state.
.
2. to drill down into a process, click the process link for the process you wish to display.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 266 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the process utilization report the report displays all available process states, compared by group: selecting a specific process provides two additional functions to this report, which are part of the single process/multiple group report (see process utilization - analyzing the single process/multiple group report on page 269): enables an additional filter, the hierarchy presentation filter.
displays a table that shows the percentage for each group for each state.
3. to change the hierarchy presentation for this report, click the hierarchy presentation drop- down and select a different hierarchy level.
4. to change the group, click a different group name in the group table.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 267 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the process utilization report solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 268 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the process utilization report process utilization - analyzing the single process/multiple group report if you select a single process, the report result will display the percentage of process states - comparison by [group name] results: the report shows the percentage of each state (idle time, net time, hold time, and lock time) for each group.
at the bottom of the results you will see a table that shows the average for each state for each group.
to change the report and get additional information: 1. to view the details for a specific state, from the process states dropdown list at the top of the report, select a state.
the report displays the percentages for the selected state. .
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 269 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the process utilization report note: when you select a single state, the report also shows the average for the search population within the defined filters.however, this average is not displayed when you select all states.
2. to change the level by which you are comparing the process results, click the hierarchy presentation drop-down and select a different hierarchy level.
3. to drill down into a group, click the group link in the table.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 270 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the process utilization report the report displays all available process states, compared by group.
drilling down further info a group will also enable you to display the result at the employee level: solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 271 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the process utilization report solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 272 - 7: desktop analytics reports total work item handling duration report total work item handling duration report total work item handling duration report - business impact total work item handling duration report - defining and running analyzing the total work item handling duration report 274 275 280 the total work item handling duration report analyzes process occurrences that may require additional attention.
in this report you can: view a list of work items that share the same unique id. view and analyze the statistics for individual work items.
view a summary of the overall total handling time for handling a given work item.
the base data is per process instance.
if there are no totals selected, grouping is limited to a visual presentation according to the parameter selected ( process name or process unique id).
in cases where totals are selected, the report groups the data according to the following: process name, process unique id, and employee when process name is selected process unique id, process name, and employee when process unique id is selected in both cases there is a visual grouping – according to the selection.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 273 - total work item handling duration report - business impact 7: desktop analytics reports total work item handling duration report - business impact the total work item handling duration report analyzes the work item handling by employees.
the report lets you view information about the following: information related to the total, net, hold, idle, and lock starting and ending times of the process instance.
pinpoint specific process instances during the work day that require special attention.
provides information about extreme instance results (for example, high/low net time or total time).
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 274 - total work item handling duration report - defining and running 7: desktop analytics reports total work item handling duration report - defining and running to run the total work item handling duration report: 1. in the cognos nice analyst workspace page click desktop process analytics reports and then select total work item handling duration.
2. specify the time period for the report.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 275 - total work item handling duration report - defining and running 7: desktop analytics reports note: if you select the standard time period, the options in this case will be yesterday, week to date or month to date (not year to date).
if you use the custom time period, remember to limit the number of days to 31 or less.
3. in the employee selection > group selection field, select between 1 to 4 groups for the report (you must, however, select at least one group).
note: in organizations that have more than one data hub (a hub of centralized data), you will first need to select a data hub from the dropdown list.
selecting a data hub will automatically display the group/employee selection option.
organizations that do not have multiple data hubs will only show the group/employee selection option.
remember to click update employee to update the employee selection.
4.
next, in the process selection field, click the field and from the dropdown list, select which process to run in the report comparison (this step is mandatory).
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 276 - total work item handling duration report - defining and running 7: desktop analytics reports 5.
optional: scroll down to the process unique id field.
6. type keywords in the keywords field, and then click the search button or press enter on your keyboard.
7. click the insert button to transfer the results from the results pane to the choice pane.
use the keywords field and search button to search for specific ids.
use % as a wildcard in the unique id selection section to display all results.
8. optional: scroll down to the stop reason field.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 277 - total work item handling duration report - defining and running 7: desktop analytics reports 9. type keywords in the keywords field, and then click the search button or press enter on your keyboard.
10.
click the insert button to transfer the results from the results pane to the choice pane.
use the keywords field and search button to search for specific stop reasons.
use % as a wildcard in the stop reason selection section to display all results.
11.
in the report view settings, you will need to specify the following: a. in the sort order field, specify whether to display the sorting in ascending or descending order.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 278 - total work item handling duration report - defining and running 7: desktop analytics reports ascending: will display the first 1,000 results.
descending: will display the last 1,000 results.
b. c. in the group data by field, specify whether to group the data according to the process name or the process unique id (see total work item handling duration report - defining and running on page 275 for additional information about this selection).
in the display totals field, specify whether to display totals in the report or not (the default is yes).
note: if you select yes in the totals setting, the totals will be calculated and displayed in the report result.
however, if you wish to export the report to a .csv file, you will need to select no in this field.
additionally, if you select the totals option, the process of generating the report may take slightly longer.
12.
when you have completed the report filters and parameters, click run report.
how do the report view settings affect the resulting report?
depending on the selection you make in the settings, the resulting report will be affected as follows: sort order: will display the first or last 1,000 results.
group data by: if you select process name, the resulting report will be sorted throughout according to the name of the process, and the totals (see next item) will also reflect the totals according to the name.
the process unique id in this case will only be a parameter within the report.
if you select process unique id, the resulting report will be sorted throughout according to the ids, and the totals (see next item) will also reflect totals according to the ids.the process name in this case will only be a parameter within the report.
display totals: if you select yes, the resulting report will include the totals, and your selection in the group data by field (see previous item) will determine which totals are displayed: process names or process unique ids.
for more information, see analyzing the total work item handling duration report on the next page for details.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 279 - analyzing the total work item handling duration report 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the total work item handling duration report the information in the total work item handling duration report is displayed as a single summary table.
only the last 1,000 rows from the end are shown in descending or ascending order and the remaining rows are truncated.
depending on your selection in step 11 of total work item handling duration report - defining and running on page 275, there are four possible results to this report: report description sorted by process name with totals the total results feature the process name and the process unique id is a column in the report.
sorted by process name without totals sorted by process unique id with totals sorted by process unique id without totals displayed without totals and the process unique id is a column in the report.
the total results feature the process unique id and the process name is a column in the report.
displayed without totals and the process name is a column in the report.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 280 - analyzing the total work item handling duration report 7: desktop analytics reports note: the total work item handling duration report does not differentiate between process types; therefore, process types that share the same process name will be visually displayed under the same ‘process name’ group.
if you need to differentiate between the process types, in the real-time designer, assign each process a different name per process type in the solutions.
the following table describes the information in this report: column description 1 data columns include the following: process unique id: the process unique id is used to differentiate between multiple instances of the same process or several users (displayed if the report is sorted by process name).
process name: the name or names of the processes (displayed if the report is sorted by process unique id).
employee: the name of the employee who participated in the process.
process start date: the date the process started.
process end date: the date the process ended.
process net duration: the total time used to complete the process, not including the time that the process was in a hold, lock, or idle state.
process hold duration: the total hold time during the process.
process idle duration: the total idle time during the process.
process lock duration: the total lock time during the process.
process total duration: the total time used to complete the process.
this includes the time that the process was in a net, hold, lock or idle state.
reason code: displays the stop reason code for the process.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 281 - analyzing the total work item handling duration report 7: desktop analytics reports column description 2 total rows: data is displayed for each employee by process.
if more than one employee worked on the same process, then each employee is listed in a separate row.
a darker row is displayed at the end of each process, which displays the data for the entire process for all employees.
an additional total row is displayed for the total number of employees and the last total row displays the process total.
the total process row will only be displayed if you selected yes in step c of total work item handling duration report - defining and running on page 275.
if you wish to export the report, you will need to re-run the report without the totals, and the resulting report will look like the example below.
viewing report filters the filters you selected in the definition stage can be viewed by click the report filters arrow.
to view the current report filters, click the filters dropdown arrow.
the filters are displayed according to the selection you made in total work item handling duration report - defining and running on page 275, including the group data by filter, which shows either process name or process unique id, depending on your selection.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 282 - 7: desktop analytics reports desktop work tracker reports desktop work tracker reports this section details the desktop work tracker reports, which include the following: application path analysis report application usage in process report process duration analysis report process utilization report 283 292 298 304 application path analysis report the application path analysis is a measure-based report that shows the optimal order of application usage when performing a process.
in this report, you can: view the different application paths employees used to performed a process view the commonality and average measure per a given path view a list of employees who used a given path when handling work items, call center and back office employees may access many applications and web pages.
in order to increase employee productivity, it is important that employees handle work items with maximum efficiency and that it applications provide support to enable this efficiency.
the application path analysis report enables you to analyze the desktop activity of employees against defined measure values.
the application path analysis report provides a means of determining the best application path in order to maximize measure values, identify low performers who may require training, or identify it applications that may require improvements or enhancements.
application path analysis report - defining and running to run the application path analysis report: 1. in the cognos nice analyst workspace page click desktop process analytics reports and then select application path analysis.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 283 - 7: desktop analytics reports application path analysis report - defining and running 2.
define the standard filters for the report; see selecting filter parameters on page 190 for details.
3. in the process (queue tag) selection area, type keywords in the keywords field, and then click the search button or press enter on your keyboard.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 284 - 7: desktop analytics reports application path analysis report - defining and running use the keywords field and search button to search for specific queue tags.
use % as a wildcard in the queue tag selection section to display all results.
4. select the relevant queue tag.
(this step is mandatory.)
note: you can only select one queue tag.
5. in the applications selection area, select the applications to be included in the report.
a. specify whether you want the report to include all applications or specific applications.
b.
if you select specific applications, the application selection section expands and displays the exclude/include selection dropdown and the applications selection field.
c. in the exclude\include selection dropdown, select from one of the following options: include, exclude or none.
if you select none, the report will not be filtered according to the applications (regardless of the choice you made in the previous step).
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 285 - 7: desktop analytics reports application path analysis report - defining and running if you select include, the paths that include the applications you select in step d will be included in the report.
if you select exclude, the paths that include the applications you select in step d will be excluded from the report.
d. in the applications selection field, select the applications you wish to include or exclude from the report and then click update applications.
6. in the sorting section, select the sorting method and order.
path number: sort by the path id number measure value: sort according to the name of the value that is being measured.
the sorting in this case will be according to the numeric value (and the resulting column heading will indicate what is being measured).
commonality: sort according to the percentage of instances for this path.
the sort works in the following way: solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 286 - 7: desktop analytics reports application path analysis report - defining and running if the paths that are included in your report have a usage that is above the percentage you set here (the default is 0), then those paths will be included in the report.
paths that fall below the stated value will not be included in the report.
if all the paths are under the stated commonality there will be no results.
number of employees: sort according to the number of employees that are included in the filtered path.
7. in the path selection section, specify the following filters: note: the available paths that you specify in this step have already been filtered according to the applications selection filter you applied in step d. e. from the show dropdown list, select top, bottom, or range and then specify the percentage from the dropdown field below it.
note: the show filter lets you set the range of paths that should be included in the report according to the percentage you set in the field.
this filter allows you to specify the top x% or bottom x% or a range of percentages.
f. if you select range, the report setup changes to enable you to specify a range from 100% to 10%:
g. next, in the top x application path to display filter, specify the maximum number of paths to display out of the total number (assuming there are enough paths from which to filter).
h. next, specify the include application paths with commonality above filter.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 287 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the application path analysis report note: this commonality filter is an optional field that is set in percentages.
see step 6 for details.
8.
when you have completed the report filters and parameters, click run report.
analyzing the application path analysis report the application path analysis report results enable you to analyze the desktop activity of employees against defined measure values in order to determine the most efficient application path.
this path will then enable you to determine how to achieve the maximum value for this measure.
the report result displays the following information: path id: the id assigned to this specific path by the cognos server.
commonality: the percentage of instances for each path, the commonality works in the following way: solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 288 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the application path analysis report if the paths that are included in your report have a usage that is above the percentage you set here (the default is 0), then those paths will be included in the report.
paths that fall below the stated value will not be included in the report.
if all the paths are under the stated commonality there will be no results.
measure value: the second column contains the name of the measure value (as defined by the company) and the relevant measurement for that value.
in the example above, the measurement is duration in seconds.
this information is provided in percentages because in very large results, it is easier to compare percentages rather than numbers.
number of employees: the number of employees that are included in this path (see viewing specific employee information below).
path data: the applications that are included in the path.
viewing specific employee information to view specific information about an employee: 1. in the number of employees column, click the employee number link to display specific data on the employees included in the path: the information in this drill-down screen includes the employee name, duration in seconds and standard deviation (sd).
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 289 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the application path analysis report note: if there is more than one instance of a specific path, the report will show the standard deviation per employee (sd), otherwise this column will remain empty.
2. to view the applications that are included in this path for the selected employees, click the applications in the selected path dropdown: viewing report filters the filters you selected in the definition stage can be viewed by click the report filters arrow.
to view the current report filters, click the filters dropdown arrow.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 290 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the application path analysis report the filters are displayed according to the selection you made: date range: if you selected custom in the definition stage, the data range will appear as either two dates separated by a hyphen, or one date (if you only specified a single day).
if you selected the standard date option, your selection (for example, yesterday) will appear in the range.
queue tag: displays the queue tag you selected.
sort by: displays the sorting option you selected.
sort order: displays the sorting order you selected (ascending or descending).
data hub: if there are multiple data hubs in your system, the data hub you selected in the definition stage will appear here.
group selection: displays the groups you selected in the employee selection filter.
employees:: displays the employees you specified in the employee selection filter.
path selection filters: top selection: displays the selection you made regarding path selection range - top, bottom, or range of results.
top percentage: displays the selection you made in the percentage field.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 291 - 7: desktop analytics reports application usage in process report include/exclude: displays your selection regarding the path exclusion/inclusion.
apps to include/exclude: displays the applications you chose to include or exclude.
refining the report in the upper right-hand toolbar will return you to the report definition, clicking the run report where you can redefine the report parameters.
application usage in process report the application usage in process report analyzes the usage of applications and web pages when working on a given process.
using this report, you can view the total and average time spent by groups or by employees in using selected applications and web pages while working on a process.
note: the report displays specific information for the most used applications only.
the number of applications reported is defined in the report filters.
all other applications are reported as an aggregate amount in a category called others.
the report displays specific information for applications and web pages that are mapped into display names.
unmapped applications are aggregated to the application without display code.
the application usage in process report compares the amount of time spent on the most used applications, and then shows the percentage of time for all of the groups and employees that were selected in the report filters as well as the average time per use.
percentage of time the total time provides insight on the most used applications.
knowing this information enables, on the one hand, to determine the important applications and to then focus on and prioritize these applications when considering improvements and enhancements.
on the other hand, knowing which applications have low usage also provides important information into potential investigate of these applications, to check whether these applications: are either difficult to use (or not intuitive), and require improvement do not provide value so that future investment in them should be discontinued there is a lack of awareness in the organization regarding these applications and their value solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 292 - application usage in process report - defining and running 7: desktop analytics reports average time per use the average time per use parameter provides insight on the average time spent on an application or web page per visit.
a short time may serve as an indication for a very efficient application while a long time may provide an indication of a required investigation or improvement (for example, to check whether the process is too complicated, offers low performance, or provides a poor user experience).
organizational hierarchy the organizational hierarchy allows you to further drill down to view results per group.
the percentage of usage per group is displayed.
click a group to display results for that group.
this is located on the left side of the screen and can be hidden or displayed.
application usage in process report - defining and running to run the application usage in process report: 1. in the cognos nice analyst workspace page click desktop process analytics reports and then select application usage in process.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 293 - application usage in process report - defining and running 7: desktop analytics reports 2. define the standard filters for the report; see selecting filter parameters on page 190 for details.
3. in the process (queue tag) selection area, type keywords in the keywords field, and then click the search button or press enter on your keyboard.
(this step is mandatory.)
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 294 - application usage in process report - defining and running 7: desktop analytics reports 4.
click the insert button to transfer the results from results pane to the choice pane.
use the keywords field and search button to search for specific queue tags.
use % as a wildcard in the queue tag selection section to display all results.
5. in the applications selection area, select the applications to be included in the report.
note: if the application you select has been removed from the real-time designer (and is, therefore, out-of-date), the application name will also display the date when it became outdated.
6. in the application display area, enter the number of top applications to display.
the default number of top applications is 5. 7.
when you have completed the report filters and parameters, click run report.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 295 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the application usage in process report analyzing the application usage in process report the application usage in process report results shows the relative usage of applications and web pages when working on a given process.
you can perform the following actions in the report window: update the hierarchy presentation - from the hierarchy presentation dropdown list, select a different level to change the level of the hierarchies displayed in the report result.
the report will be updated according to your selection.
update the top number of applications to display - in the top applications to display: [x] field, enter the number of top applications you wish to display in the report and then click the refresh button to update the page results.
refine the report - click the run report you to the report definition, where you can redefine the report parameters.
button in the upper right-hand toolbar will return the application usage in process report breaks down into the following areas: the total application usage in process bar graph this graph analyzes the applications employees used the most in each process.
the percentage of time for each group, team, or employee spends in each of these states is presented.
note: an application whose mapping is out-of-date will be displayed with a light-gray bar.
when defining and running the report, these applications are denoted with the date when they became outdated.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 296 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the application usage in process report top x used applications: the most used applications are each represented by a bar on the graph.
each bar displays the total time that the application was used by all of the groups, teams, or employees selected in the filter.
the applications are listed from top to bottom with the most used application on top.
the number of applications displayed is determined during the definition stage.
amount of time used: the percentage of time that the selected groups, teams, or employees use each application.
this is displayed along the x-axis at the bottom of the graph.
hover information: hovering the mouse over the bars displays: the name of the application represented by the bar where the mouse is hovering.
the percentage of time the application was used by all of the selected groups, teams, or employees.
the rank of the application according to percentage of time used.
average time per use in process bar graph this graph shows the average time applications are used for a single process.
the data shows an aggregate average for all of the groups, teams, or employees included in the report.
each report page represents a process.
note: average time = total time in the application divided by the number of instances this application was made active.
the colored sections represent the applications included in the report.
this is displayed along the x- axis at the bottom of the graph.
hover information: hovering the mouse over a colored section of the graph displays: the name of the application represented by the color where the mouse is hovering.
the average time the application, represented by the color where the mouse is hovering, was used in the process.
use the top applications to display field at the top of the report to update the number of top applications you wish to display in the report.
application usage in process organizational hierarchy this selection controls the report resolution in terms of hierarchy.
set the table resolution to the selected hierarchy level: group: displays the average data for predefined groups.
groups are the highest level in the hierarchy.
team: displays the average data for predefined teams (there can be a number of team levels).the data displayed is the average data for each team.
employee: displays the data for each individual employee.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 297 - 7: desktop analytics reports process duration analysis report the report results show the percentage of total usage for this application per process for each level.
application usage in process summary table the summary table presents the statistics in table form.
the following information appears in the average application usage summary table: column description application displays the applications selected for this report.
page name displays the page name of the application.
data columns includes the following information: average time per use in seconds for each application percentage of application usage for each application - this is the percentage of the page usage for this application (so the subtotal for the application is always 100%) percentage of total usage for each application - the usage percentage of the application or page out of the total search results process duration analysis report the process duration analysis report compares the average time it takes for groups/employees to complete processes.
this report analyzes processes handled by groups/employees, shows the average process duration for each process type, and performs comparisons between different groups/employees.
the analysis of process inefficiencies that require further investigation is done using the process utilization report.
a process duration comparison between groups/employees enables the comparison of groups/employees against an expected standard and to detect deviations (either positive or negative).
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 298 - process duration analysis report - defining and running 7: desktop analytics reports using this report, it is possible to detect groups/employees who execute processes relatively slowly, and may require additional training to be more efficient in the execution of the process.
the report also enables to detect groups that perform processes faster, and this information can then be used as a means of improving the functionality of other groups/employees.
process duration analysis report - defining and running to run the process duration analysis report: 1. in the cognos nice analyst workspace page click desktop process analytics reports and then select process duration analysis.
2. define the standard filters for the report; see selecting filter parameters on page 190 for details.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 299 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the process duration analysis report 3.
define the time unit in which to display the results: seconds, minutes, or hours.
4. in the process (queue tag) selection area, type keywords in the keywords field, and then click the search button or press enter on your keyboard.
(this step is mandatory.)
5. click the insert button to transfer the results from results pane to the selected pane.
use the keywords field and search button to search for specific queue tags.
use % as a wildcard in the queue tag selection section to display all results.
6. when you have completed the report filters and parameters, click run report.
analyzing the process duration analysis report the process duration analysis report compares the average process duration across multiple groups.
this report analyzes process duration by enabling the comparison between groups or employees and for process types.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 300 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the process duration analysis report results the report result displays the average process duration by employee ( or group).
the employees or groups that are being compared appear along the y-axis and the time duration appears along the x- axis.
in addition, results are displayed in a summary table: solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 301 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the process duration analysis report the process instance and average duration is listed per employee or group.
updating the hierarchy presentation to change the level of the hierarchies displayed in the report result, from the hierarchy presentation dropdown, select a different level.
the report will be updated according to your selection.
changing the report time unit to change the report time unit (seconds, minutes or hours), from the time unit dropdown, select a different time unit.
the report will be updated according to your selection.
viewing report filters the filters you selected in the definition stage can be viewed by click the report filters arrow.
to view the current report filters, click the filters dropdown arrow.
the filters are displayed according to the selection you made: solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 302 - 7: desktop analytics reports running the application usage in process report date range: if you selected custom in the definition stage, the data range will appear as either two dates separated by a hyphen, or one date (if you only specified a single day).
if you selected the standard date option, your selection (for example, yesterday) will appear in the range.
time unit: the time unit in which the results are displayed.
queue tag: the queue tags you selected will be displayed group selection: the groups you selected in the employee selection filter.
employees: the employees you specified in the employee selection filter.
refining the report in the upper right-hand toolbar will return you to the report definition, clicking the run report where you can redefine the report parameters.
running the application usage in process report you can run the application usage in process report directly from this report without reverting back to nice analyst workspace.
the report filters for the process duration analysis report are inherited to create the application usage in process report.
for example, the same date range, specific process, and the selected group hierarchy.
the new report is opened in a new window in addition to the current report.
the default number of top applications displayed in the application usage in process report that is opened here is 100.
to open the application usage in process report: 1. in the process duration analysis report summary table, select the group hierarchy for which you want to run the application usage in process report.
2. click the .
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 303 - the application usage in process report opens.
7: desktop analytics reports process utilization report process utilization report the process utilization report analyzes processes and provides insight into how much time out of the total process time was utilized for actual work.the report is based on a comparison and analysis of processes, which enables the user to understand which processes are more utilized (high net time) and which processes are less utilized (low net time).
this report also enables you to compare how different groups utilize a specific process.
the process utilization report enables you to determine two important factors: the utilization of a process compared to other processes the utilization of a groups using the same process there are four available states for each process: net time: the net time during which users are using the process hold time: the time during which users place the process on hold, for example, a process may be put on hold in order to allow the user to obtain additional information idle time: this is the time during which the user is not using the process at all lock time: this is the time when the user places their computer on lock the main objective for each process is to maximize the net time and minimize other states, since this means that the employee is actually working on the process, and to ensure that the other statuses - such as hold and idle - are minimized to avoid the employee from switching out of the process.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 304 - 7: desktop analytics reports process utilization report - defining and running processes with lower net percentage are indications of processes that should, potentially, be investigated to understand the root cause for why employees are spending time in other states of the process.
process utilization report - defining and running to run the process utilization report: 1. in the cognos nice analyst workspace page click desktop process analytics reports and then select process utilization.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 305 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the process utilization report 2.
define the standard filters for the report; see selecting filter parameters on page 190 for details.
3.
next, in the process (queue tag) selection area, select one of the following: a comparison between multiple queue tags to compare between different queue tags a comparison of groups within all queue tags to compare by organizational structure and hierarchy 4. search for keywords to locate the specific queue tags you want to compare and insert them into the choice pane.
(this step is mandatory.)
5. if you select all queue tags, in the hierarchy presentation area, select how to display the results, based on hierarchy.
6. when you have completed the report filters and parameters, click run report.
analyzing the process utilization report the process utilization report results enable you to compare and see which processes have the maximum efficiency of use - the maximum net time during which a process is in use.
similarly, the group or level comparison option is designed to let you see how groups compare in their use of a single process, in order to obtain information about efficiency between groups.
the results in this report depend on the selection you made in the definition stage.
this means that the report results display the percentages of the process states by comparing the processes themselves or the group states for a single process.
therefore, this report creates two reports that enable you to track process utilization: process utilization - analyzing the multiple queue tags report on the facing page process utilization - analyzing the single process-multiple group report on page 311 viewing report filters the filters you selected in the definition stage can be viewed by click the report filters arrow.
to view the current report filters, click the filters dropdown arrow.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 306 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the process utilization report the filters are displayed according to the selection you made: date range: if you selected custom in the definition stage, the data range will appear as either two dates separated by a hyphen, or one date (if you only specified a single day).
if you selected the standard date option, your selection (for example, yesterday) will appear in the range.
see step 1: selecting a time period on page 190 for details.
queue tag: displays the queue tags you selected.
data hub: if there are multiple data hubs in your system, the data hub you selected in the definition stage will appear her (see step 2: selecting a data hub on page 190).
group selection: displays the groups you selected in the employee selection filter (see step 3: selecting groups and employees on page 191).
employees:: displays the employees you specified in the employee selection filter (see step 3: selecting groups and employees on page 191).
process selection: displays the process you selected in step 5 in process utilization - defining and running on page 260.
refining the report clicking the run report where you can redefine the report parameters.
in the upper right-hand toolbar will return you to the report definition, process utilization - analyzing the multiple queue tags report if you select multiple queue tags, the report result will display the percentage of process states - comparison by process (queue tag) results: solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 307 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the process utilization report the report shows the percentage of each state (idle time, net time, hold time, and lock time).
the available states are displayed in the legend to the right of the results.
at the bottom of the results, you will see a table that shows the percentage for each state for each queue tag.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 308 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the process utilization report to change the report and get additional information: 1. to view the results for a specific state, from the process states dropdown list at the top of the report, select a state.
the report displays the percentages for the selected state.
.
2. to drill down into a queue tag, click the link for the queue tag you wish to display.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 309 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the process utilization report the report displays all available process states, compared by group: selecting a specific queue tag provides two additional functions to this report: enables an additional filter, the hierarchy presentation filter.
displays a table that shows the percentage for each group for each state.
3. to change the hierarchy presentation for this report, click the hierarchy presentation drop- down and select a different hierarchy level.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 310 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the process utilization report 4. to change the group, click a different group name in the group table.
process utilization - analyzing the single process-multiple group report if you select a all queue tags, the report result will display the percentage of process states - comparison by [group name] results: the report shows the percentage of each state (idle time, net time, hold time, and lock time) for each group.
at the bottom of the results you will see a table that shows the average for each state for each group.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 311 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the process utilization report to change the report and get additional information: 1. to view the details for a specific state, from the process states dropdown list at the top of the report, select a state.
the report displays the percentages for the selected state.
note: when you select a single state, the report also shows the average for the search population within the defined filters.however, this average is not displayed when you select all states.
2. to change the level by which you are comparing the process results, click the hierarchy presentation drop-down and select a different hierarchy level.
3. to drill down into a group, click the group link in the table.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 312 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the process utilization report the report displays all available process states, compared by group.
drilling down further info a group will also enable you to display the result at the employee level: solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 313 - 7: desktop analytics reports analyzing the process utilization report solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 314 - 7: desktop analytics reports troubleshooting the desktop analytics reports troubleshooting the desktop analytics reports use the following topics to troubleshoot your desktop analytics environment.
missing data in the reports 316 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 315 - 7: desktop analytics reports missing data in the reports missing data in the reports use the following guideline to troubleshoot when your reports do not have enough data, or are missing data, for example, display names.
to troubleshoot missing data in reports: 1. verify that users exist in dwh_agents_dim.
2. verify that the data mart population job and the data mart partition job finished successfully.
3. verify that all display names and category mappings exist in dwh_applicationpage_dim for each data hub.
4. if you get the following error when adding a data hub to a data mart, you must remove the windows patch kb3004375, "update to improve windows command-line auditing": an error occurred during service master key decryption solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 316 - 8 8:server dashboard - administrative reports administrative reports in the server dashboard contents 318 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 317 - 8: server dashboard - administrative reports administrative reports in the server dashboard administrative reports in the server dashboard the server dashboard consists of reports that provide administrators with information about automatic updates and solution downloads across the entire population of users.
the server dashboard relies on the availability of the advanced process automation reports server.
if the reports server is not available, the automatic update and solution download auditing data resides in the database, but is not accessible via the server dashboard.
access to the server dashboard reports is through the cognos portal.
to access the reports: 1. access the reports portal using the cognos server desktop shortcut or, on the cognos machine go to http://localhost/ibmcognos/bi/?perspective=home.
click for pop-up tips.
2. from the left pane, select team content then select server dashboard reports.
the list of reports opens.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 318 - 8: server dashboard - administrative reports administrative reports in the server dashboard 3.
select a report and continue with one of the following: viewing the auto update downloads report on the next page viewing the solution downloads report on page 324 viewing the logged-in users report on page 328 viewing the callout display report on page 329 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 319 - 8: server dashboard - administrative reports viewing the auto update downloads report viewing the auto update downloads report click the automatic update report link to generate a report about recent automatic update downloads for the users of the current environment: the auto update downloads report can be filtered to show automatic update downloads per automatic-update directory per agent per revision number.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 320 - 8: server dashboard - administrative reports viewing the auto update downloads report you can also filter the auto update downloads report to apply to a specific set of users, teams, computers and/or revisions (a revision is an automatic-update upload set).
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 321 - 8: server dashboard - administrative reports viewing the auto update downloads report solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 322 - 8: server dashboard - administrative reports viewing the auto update downloads report solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 323 - 8: server dashboard - administrative reports viewing the solution downloads report viewing the solution downloads report click the solution download report link to generate a report about recent solution downloads for the users of the current environment: the solution download report can be filtered to show solution downloads per version per agent.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 324 - 8: server dashboard - administrative reports viewing the solution downloads report you can also filter the report to apply to a specific set of users, teams, computers, solution names and/or versions.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 325 - 8: server dashboard - administrative reports viewing the solution downloads report solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 326 - 8: server dashboard - administrative reports viewing the solution downloads report solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 327 - 8: server dashboard - administrative reports viewing the logged-in users report viewing the logged-in users report click the logged-in users report link to display the generate a report about users currently logged in to the current environment: the logged-in users report shows currently running users (detected as online within the designated time frame).
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 328 - 8: server dashboard - administrative reports viewing the callout display report you can filter the logged-in users report to apply to a specific set of teams or a specified time frame.
the computer name column from which the agent logged-in.you can also choose to show unexpected logouts only or all entries.
if you select unexpected logouts, the report only lists those logged-in users whose last session was terminated unexpectedly.
the unexpected logout?
column indicates if the user was unexpectedly logged out.
viewing the callout display report use the callout display report to view the following information regarding callouts: number of callout instances how many callouts were closed within 2 seconds how many callouts were moved on screen you can filter the report by team, time period and callout name.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 329 - 8: server dashboard - administrative reports viewing the callout display report once you have applied the relevant filters, you can run the report.
the report results appear in a table.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 330 - 8: server dashboard - administrative reports viewing the callout display report solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 331 -
[this page intentionally left blank] a:data mart schema data mart table relationships general data mart schema tables data mart database and operational database jobs desktop analytics data mart schema tables data mart objects a contents 335 337 354 357 390 the data mart database schema utilizes a data warehousing methodology that is based on fact tables (or transaction tables).
fact tables consist of the measurements, metrics or facts that are included in a business process.
the data mart database schema fact tables use a snowflake-like schema, meaning the fact table is surrounded by several dimension tables, herein referred to as dim tables, which supply the fact tables with the required data.
the following image illustrates the data mart snowflake schema.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 333 - a: data mart schema a: data mart schema about the siteid parameter the siteid parameter used throughout the data mart database tables is a unique identifier for each center of information, which is called a "site" in the database and a "data hub" in the data mart reports.
the siteid contains both the source (site, hub, center) and its original id. the siteid parameter provides the following capabilities: when combined with an agentid, ensures that the information generated for the agentid pertains to the correct site or data hub.
this ensures that if there are multiple sites at which the agentid might be assigned to more than one agent, the combination of agentid and siteid ensures that the information obtained is on the correct agent.
when using multiple data hubs or sites, the siteid parameter enables you to filter according to a specific site using the siteid parameter.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 334 - a: data mart schema data mart table relationships data mart table relationships the data mart tables share a logical relationship rather than a physical one.
note: the raw data fact tables (dwh_agentstateapppage_fact on page 368 and dwh_ task_fact on page 370) do not have built-in relations with the dim tables in the current cognos schema; however, they can be connected to the dim tables using sql queries.
each fact table draws information from several dim tables; the relationship between each fact table and its dim tables is shown at the beginning of each fact table description (for example, see dwh_ application_day_fact on page 378) and shows the relationship between the various table types.
the diagram below shows the overall relationship between the different tables, while the specific relationships between the tables are detailed per each fact table in the following sections.
refer to the following table to view the overall relationships between fact and dim tables.
to view the specific information that is shared between the tables, refer to the fact tables.
fact table name dim table names dwh_application_day_fact dwh_process_day_fact dwh_applicationprocess_day_ fact dwh_task_day_fact dwh_sites_dim dwh_agents_dim dwh_application_pages_dim dwh_sites_dim dwh_agents_dim dwh_qtag_dim dwh_process_dim dwh_sites_dim dwh_agents_dim dwh_application_pages_dim dwh_process_dim dwh_qtag_dim dwh_sites_dim dwh_agents_dim dwh_qtag_dim dwh_task_dim solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 335 - a: data mart schema data mart table relationships solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 336 - a: data mart schema general data mart schema tables general data mart schema tables the general data mart schema includes tables that are used in all real-time solutions and are part of the solution platform.
the schema includes the following database tables.
gnr tables general dim tables dwh_sites_dim dwh_calendar_dim dwh_agents_dim dwh_team_dim kpi tables kpi_meta kpi_result kpi_result_aggregation dc_sample table 338 339 340 341 343 344 345 346 348 350 352 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 337 - gnr tables gnr tables are user-defined, dynamic tables in the data mart schema.
these tables feature a siteid column, which is added to the table in order to support multiple data hubs in data mart.
a: data mart schema gnr tables solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 338 - general dim tables the following dim tables are included in the data mart database schema.
these tables are essentially the explanations of the information contained in the fact tables: a: data mart schema general dim tables dwh_sites_dim on the next page dwh_calendar_dim on page 341 dwh_agents_dim on page 343 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 339 - a: data mart schema dwh_sites_dim dwh_sites_dim the following table contains details on the site: column name data type nullable description siteid int identity (1,1))
no the code of the site (referred to in the data mart reports as data hub) (1,2,3...) sitename varchar(250)
no the name of the site sitedbhostandname varchar(50) for internal use
only yes yes
yes sitelastloaddate alllastloaddate combined_linked_ server datetime datetime varchar(200)
yes path_last_update_time datetime path_bulk_copy_hours path_event_min_ duration_seconds int int path_event_sync_hours int bstarted bit dtpopulationupperlimit datetime is_enabled bit
yes
yes
yes
yes
yes
yes
yes solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 340 - a: data mart schema dwh_calendar_dim dwh_calendar_dim the following table contains all of the relevant date information required for the schema:.
column name data type nullable description date_id date int datetime next_day_date datetime year smallint
year_quarter year_month year_day_of_year quarter month int int int tinyint tinyint day_of_year smallint day_of_month smallint day_of_week tinyint year_name year_quarter_ name varchar(4))
varchar(7))
year_month_name varchar(8))
year_month_name_ long varchar(14))
no no
no
no
no
no
no
no
no
no
no
no
no
no
no
no the code of the date the date (for example: "2014-01-01') the date of the following (next) day the year the quarter (for example, 1) the month (for example, 7) the day of the month (for example, 15, 17) the day of the week (for example, monday) the year and the quarter (2015 q1) the year and the month (2015 may) the year and the full month (2015 march) quarter_name
varchar(2))
no the name of the quarter (for example, q2) solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 341 - a: data mart schema dwh_calendar_dim column name data type nullable description month_name varchar(3))
no month_name_long varchar(9))
no weekday_name varchar(3))
no the short name of the month (for example, mar) the long name of the month (for example, march) the short name of the weekday (for example, tue) weekday_name_ long varchar(9))
no the long name of the weekday (for example, tuesday) start_of_year_date datetime end_of_year_date datetime start_of_quarter_ date
datetime
no
no
no the start of the year date the end of the year date the start of the quarter date end_of_quarter_ date
start_of_month_ date end_of_month_ date start_of_week_ starting_sun_date end_of_week_
starting_sun_date start_of_week_ starting_mon_ date end_of_week_
starting_mon_ date datetime
no the end of the quarter date datetime
no the start of the month date
datetime
no the end of the month date datetime
no the start day if the week starts on sunday datetime
no the end date if the week starts on sunday datetime
no the start day if the week starts on monday datetime
no the end date if the week starts on monday solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 342 - a: data mart schema dwh_agents_dim dwh_agents_dim the following table details the information provided on the agent: column name data type nullable description siteid agentid ntlogin name int int identity (1,1))
no no the code of the site (referred to in the data mart reports as data hub) (1,2,3...)
the code of the agent in data mart (for example, 0,1,2,...) varchar(300)
yes the code of the agent (from operational) varchar(300)
yes the name of the agent userteamid int
yes lvl1… lvl9 varchar(50)
yes the code of the team of agents (dwh_team_ dim)
this is the basis for the cognos hierarchy of agents solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 343 - a: data mart schema dwh_team_dim dwh_team_dim the following table contains .... column name data type nullable description siteid teamid teamname teamopid int int identity (1,1))
no no the code of the site (referred to in the data mart reports as data hub) (1,2,3...)
the code of the team of agents varchar(40)
yes the name of the team type varchar(400)
yes the code of the team instances type (string) solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 344 -
a: data mart schema kpi tables kpi tables the following are the kpi tables in the data mart database schema: kpi_meta on the next page kpi_result on page 348 kpi_result_aggregation on page 350 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 345 - a: data mart schema kpi_meta kpi_meta the following table contains kpi value information such as thresholds and calculations.
column name data type nullable description indx siteid id cs_indx bigint numeric (12,0)
yes no a unique id for each kpi entry in the table the code of the site (referred to in the data mart reports as data hub) (1,2,3...) varchar(200)
yes the unique id for each kpi entry numeric (12,0)
yes the id for a set of kpi’s for each process ctrl_utc_server_ time
datetime yes the time of the server when the entry is created (utc time) ctrl_user_id varchar(200)
yes the user id display_name varchar(50)
yes the kpi name description varchar(400)
yes the kpi description calculation_
formula_id decimal(5,0)
yes a number that indicates the calculation formula display_mask_id decimal(5,0)
yes a number that indicates the display mask threshold1 threshold2 threshold3 threshold4 decimal (10,5) decimal (10,5) decimal (10,5) decimal (10,5)
yes
yes
yes yes kpi threshold val1 kpi threshold val2 kpi threshold val3 kpi threshold val4 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 346 - a: data mart schema kpi_meta column name data type nullable description ascending decimal(1,0)
yes number (1 or 0) current_time_ frame_id decimal(5,0)
yes number (1 or 0) current_time_count decimal(9,0)
yes number (1 or 0) history_time_frame_
id decimal(5,0)
yes number (1 or 0) history_time_count decimal(9,0)
yes number (1 or 0) measure_unit_id decimal(5,0)
yes number (1 or 0) show_team decimal(1,0)
yes number (1 or 0) show_history decimal(1,0)
yes number (1 or 0) visible_for_agent decimal(1,0)
yes number (1 or 0) visible_for_super decimal(1,0)
yes number (1 or 0) scale numeric (18,0)
yes the number of digits after the decimal point solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 347 - a: data mart schema kpi_result kpi_result the following table contains the kpi values for each process configured with kpis.
column name data type nullable description siteid indx kpi_meta_indx int numeric (12,0) numeric (12,0)
no
no
yes the code of the site (referred to in the data mart reports as data hub)
(1,2,3...) a primary key, unique id generated for each entry a foreign key, unique id that generates for each kpi ctrl_utc_server_ time
datetime yes the utc time of the server when entry is created ctrl_user_id varchar(200)
yes the user id val team_id user_tz decimal (14,5) yes the kpi value varchar(200)
yes the team id varchar(20)
yes yes local_user_time datetime
utc_user_time datetime no the time zone the local time of the server when the entry is created the utc time of the client when the entry is created user_display varchar(50) team_display varchar(50)
yes yes displays the user name displays the team name guid varchar(200)
yes a unique identifier for the kpi event super_team_id varchar(200)
yes displays the group id solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 348 - a: data mart schema kpi_result column name data type nullable description super_team_display varchar(50)
yes displays the name of the group super_super_team_
id super_super_team_ display process_instance_
id varchar(200)
yes displays the top hierarchy group id varchar(50)
yes displays the top hierarchy group varchar(200)
yes a unique id for each process instance agentid int process_type_indx
int process_instance_ indx numeric (12,0) qtagid int
yes
yes
yes yes the code of the agent in data mart (for example, 0,1,2,...)
a foreign key for the related process entry type a foreign key for the related process entry numeric id the code of the queue tag (sub type of process in specific context) solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 349 - a: data mart schema kpi_result_aggregation kpi_result_aggregation the following table contains the aggregated kpi values for each process configured with kpis.
column name data type nullable description siteid indx int numeric (12,0) no
no the code of the site (referred to in the data mart reports as data hub)
(1,2,3...) a unique id for each kpi result entry in the table kpi_meta_id varchar(200)
no a foreign key to the kpi metadata entry ctrl_utc_server_ time datetime no the time of the server when the entry is created (utc time) ctrl_user_id varchar(200)
no the user id val decimal (20,5) no the kpi value team_id varchar(200)
no the team id super_team_id varchar(200)
yes the group id num_of_ components user_tz decimal(12, 0) varchar(20)
utc_user_agg_time datetime user_display varchar(50) team_display varchar(50)
no
yes
no
no
no the number of components the client time zone the user start time (in utc time)
('2014-01- 15 00:00:00.000') displays the user name displays the name of the team super_team_display varchar(50)
yes displays the name of the group solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 350 - a: data mart schema kpi_result_aggregation column name data type nullable description super_super_team_
id super_super_team_ display varchar(200)
yes displays the top hierarchy group id varchar(50)
yes displays the top hierarchy group cs_id varchar(200)
no a foreign key to the kpi’s solution metadata entry solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 351 - a: data mart schema
dc_sample table dc_sample table the following table contains the data collection (dc) sample value information.
column name data type nullable description indx dc_meta_indx team_id utc_user_start_
time local_user_start_ time numeric(12, 0) numeric(12, 0) nvarchar (200)
no
yes
yes datetime
no a primary key, unique id generated for each entry a foreign key to the metadata entry the generating team id the user start time (in utc time) ('2014-01-15 13:28:42.654')
datetime
yes the user start time (in local time) ('2014-01-15 13:28:42.654')
utc_user_end_time
datetime yes the user end time (in utc time) ('2014-01-15 13:28:42.654') local_user_end_ time ctrl_utc_server_ time datetime
yes the user end time (in local time) ('2014-01-15 13:28:42.654')
datetime
yes the time the record was saved in the operational database (in utc time) ('2014-01- 15 13:28:42.654') ctrl_user_id varchar(200)
yes the generating user id user_display team_display varchar(50) varchar(50) siteid
int
yes
yes no the generating user name the generating team name the code of the site (referred to in the data mart reports as data hub) (1,2,3...) solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 352 - a: data mart schema dc_sample table column name data type nullable description guid varchar(200)
yes a unique id generated for each data collection entry process_instance_
id varchar(200)
yes a foreign key to the related process entry id agentid int process_type_indx int process_instance_ indx numeric(12, 0) qtagid user_tz int varchar(20)
yes
yes
yes
yes yes the code of the agent in data mart (for example, 0,1,2,...)
a foreign key to the related process entry type a foreign key to the related process entry numeric id the use of the process in a specific context the user time zone solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 353 - data mart database and operational database jobs a: data mart schema data mart database and operational database jobs the following section details all data mart- and operational-related database jobs.
data mart database job job name description required permissions nice rti dm differential backup nightly differential (delta) backup of real-time solutions data mart database.
rti dbs db_owner msdb sqlagentuserrole nice rti dm full backup weekly full backup of real-time rti dbs solutions data mart database and the system databases: master and msdb.
db_owner master nice rti dm log backup hourly backup of real-time solutions data mart database transactional logs.
nice rti dm partition management prepares the partitions in advance (weekly).
db_backupoperator msdb db_backupoperator sqlagentuserrole rti dbs db_owner msdb sqlagentuserrole rti dbs db_owner msdb sqlagentuserrole solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 354 - data mart database and operational database jobs a: data mart schema job name description required permissions nice rti dm reindex reorganize data mart table indexes with high percentage of changes, to improve performance.
rti dbs db_owner msdb nice rti dm update statistics updates statistics on data mart tables, to improve performance.
nice rti dm population the population jobs continuously transfer data from the operational database to the data mart.
in the data mart, data undergoes aggregations for report purposes.
operational database jobs sqlagentuserrole rti dbs db_owner msdb sqlagentuserrole rti dbs db_owner msdb sqlagentuserrole job name description required permissions nice rti ra retention retention for detailed and summary data in robotics tables.
nice rti retention non partition retention of data collection tables only.
rti dbs db_owner msdb sqlagentuserrole rti dbs db_owner master db_backupoperator msdb db_backupoperator sqlagentuserrole solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 355 - data mart database and operational database jobs a: data mart schema job name description required permissions nice partition management prepares the partitions in advance (weekly).
rti dbs db_owner msdb sqlagentuserrole nice rti reindex reorganize indexes with high percentage of changes, to improve performance.
rti dbs db_owner msdb sqlagentuserrole rti dbs db_owner msdb sqlagentuserrole nice rti update statistics updates statistics, to improve performance.
nice rti ra aggregations activates the aggregation calculations in the operational database.
nice rti ra downtime activates the downtime calculations in the operational database.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 356 - a: data mart schema desktop analytics data mart schema tables desktop analytics data mart schema tables the desktop analytics data mart schema includes the following database tables.
desktop analytics dim tables dwh_tasks_dim dwh_qtag_dim dwh_process_dim dwh_applicationpage_dim dwh_hierarchylevel_dim dwh_agentstate_dim dwh_ref_process_stop_reason_dim dwh_off_desktop_reason_dim raw data fact tables dwh_agentstateapppage_fact dwh_task_fact dwh_path_fact dwh_process_instance_fact dwh_off_desktop_user_reporting_fact aggregated data fact tables dwh_application_day_fact dwh_process_day_fact dwh_applicationprocess_day_fact dwh_task_day_fact 358 359 360 361 362 363 364 365 365 367 368 370 372 374 375 377 378 381 384 387 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 357 - desktop analytics dim tables the following dim tables are included in the data mart database schema. .
a: data mart schema desktop analytics dim tables dwh_tasks_dim dwh_qtag_dim dwh_process_dim dwh_applicationpage_dim dwh_hierarchylevel_dim dwh_agentstate_dim dwh_ref_process_stop_reason_dim dwh_off_desktop_reason_dim 359 360 361 362 363 364 365 365 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 358 - a: data mart schema dwh_tasks_dim dwh_tasks_dim the following table details the information provided on the task instances: column name data type nullable description siteid taskid processid taskname taskclientid taskopid int int int varchar(50) int varchar (200)
no
no
no
yes
yes yes the code of the site (referred to in the data mart reports as data hub)
(1,2,3...) a unique id for each task instance, defined by the sql server (number) a unique id for each process instance, defined by the sql server (number) the name of the task instances type the code of the task instances type (number) the code of the task instances type (string) solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 359 - a: data mart schema dwh_qtag_dim dwh_qtag_dim the following table contains information on the queue tag: column name data type nullable description siteid qtagid int int identity (1,1))
no no the code of the site (referred to in the data mart reports as data hub) (1,2,3...) a unique id for each queue tag, defined by the sql server (number) qtagname varchar(40)
yes the name of the queue tag solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 360 - a: data mart schema dwh_process_dim dwh_process_dim the following table details the information provided on the process instances: column name data type nullable description siteid processid int int processname varchar(50) processclientid int processopid varchar (200)
no
no
yes
yes yes the code of the site (referred to in the data mart reports as data hub)
(1,2,3...) a unique id for each process instance, defined by the sql server (number) the name of the process instances type the code of the process instances type (number) the code of the process instances type (string) measure varchar(50)
yes a description of what is being measured in the path fact table solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 361 - a: data mart schema dwh_applicationpage_dim dwh_applicationpage_dim the following table details the information provided on applications and pages: column name data type nullable description siteid pageid pagetype pagename int int tinyint varcharl (300))
no no
no
yes pagecolor varcharl(6))
yes appid int appname varcharl (300))
yes yes appcolor varcharl(6))
yes pagecat appcat reportcat teamid varcharl (500))
varcharl (500))
varcharl (500))
int
yes
yes
yes yes the code of the site (referred to in the data mart reports as data hub)
(1,2,3...) the code (index) of the page display name the code of the type of page the page display name the color that was defined for the page reports the code (index) of the application display name the application display name the color that was defined for the application reports the category of the page display name the category of the application display name the category of the page/application display name used in the report the code of the team of agents (for example, 0,1,2,...).
this can affect the category of the page, therefore, there is a pageid record per teamid.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 362 - a: data mart schema dwh_hierarchylevel_dim dwh_hierarchylevel_dim the following table information about the hierarchy of agents (used as the basis for the cognos hierarchy of agents): column name data type nullable description
id levelid int
yes the unique code of the level (0,1,2…10) varchar(50))
yes the code of the level levelname varchar(50))
yes the name of the level (site (data hub), agent, group, team…) maxlevelid uicode int int
yes yes the code that shows the maximum level in the hierarchy an indicator if the row may be edited solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 363 - a: data mart schema dwh_agentstate_dim dwh_agentstate_dim the following table details the information provided on the state (status) of the agent: column name data type nullable description siteid agentstateid int int
no no the code of the site (referred to in the data mart reports as data hub) (1,2,3...)
the code of the computer work state (1, 2, 3, 4, 5 , 0) name varchar(50)
yes color originalid varchar(50) varchar(50)
yes
yes the name (description) of the computer work state (log in, idle, lock, process active, process on hold, log out) the color that was defined for the reports the code of the agent state (from operational) solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 364 - a: data mart schema dwh_ref_process_stop_reason_dim dwh_ref_process_stop_reason_dim the following table details the information provided on the process stop reason.
column name data type nullable description siteid stop_reason_id int int stop_reason_guid varchar(50) stop_reason_desc varchar(50)
[is_default] bit no
no
no
yes no the code of the site (referred to in the data mart reports as data hub) (1,2,3...)
the code of the process stop reason (1, 2, 3, 4, 5 , 0) the unique id of the stop reason the name of the stop reason specifies whether the stop reason has been set as a default reason in the process monitor.
deleted_on datetime
yes specifies when the stop reason was deleted.
dwh_off_desktop_reason_dim the following table details the information provided on off-desktop reasons.
column name data type nullable description siteid off_desktop_reason_id int int
no
no off_desktop_reason_guid varchar (50) no off_desktop_reason_desc varchar (200)
yes the code of the site (referred to in the data mart reports as data hub) (1,2,3...)
the id of the off desktop reason the unique id of the off desktop reason the description of the off desktop reason solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 365 - a: data mart schema dwh_off_desktop_reason_dim column name deleted_on data type nullable description datetime
yes specifies when the off desktop reason was deleted solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 366 - a: data mart schema raw data fact tables raw data fact tables the data mart database schema includes two raw data fact tables and two detailed fact tables based on the raw data fact tables:
dwh_agentstateapppage_fact dwh_task_fact dwh_agentstateapppage_fact dwh_task_fact dwh_path_fact dwh_process_instance_fact dwh_off_desktop_user_reporting_fact 368 370 372 374 375 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 367 - a: data mart schema dwh_agentstateapppage_fact dwh_agentstateapppage_fact the dwh_agentstateapppage_fact table is one of two raw data fact tables included in the data mart database schema.
this table contains data on the agent state and on the application page.
column name data type nullable description siteid int timeperiodid decimal(26, 8) no
no the code of the site (referred to in the data mart reports as data hub)
(1,2,3...) not currently in use fromtime datetime
yes totime
datetime
yes totimeutc datetime
yes secondsduration decimal(18, 3) agentid agentstateid apppageid teamid int int int int pageeventindx bigint
yes
yes
yes
yes
yes yes the segment start time (in local time)
('2014-01-15 13:28:42.654')
the segment end time (in local time) ('2014-01-15 13:28:42.654') the segment end time (in utc time) ('2014-01-15 13:28:42.654') the duration of the segment in seconds (for example, 132.132) the code of the agent in data mart (for example, 0,1,2,...)
this is the code of the computer work state (see dwh_agentstate_dim on page 364).
this is the index of the page display name (0,1,2,...)
the code of the team of agents (for example, 0,1,2,...)
the indx column of the page (application) event from operational solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 368 - a: data mart schema dwh_agentstateapppage_fact column name data type
nullable description stateeventindx bigint
yes the index column of the state event from operational fromtimeutc datetime
yes appeventtotimeutc
datetime
yes appeventtotime datetime
yes stateeventtotimeutc datetime yes stateeventtotime
datetime
yes the segment start time (in utc time)
('2014-01-15 13:28:42.654')
the application event end time (in utc time) ('2014-01-15 13:28:42.654') the application event end time (in local time) ('2014-01-15 13:28:42.654') the state event end time (in utc time) ('2014-01-15 13:28:42.654') the state event end time (in local time) ('2014-01-15 13:28:42.654') solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 369 - a: data mart schema dwh_task_fact dwh_task_fact the dwh_task_fact table contains raw data on the tasks.
column name data type nullable description siteid processtaskid qtagid processinstanceid taskinstanceid timeperiodid secondsduration processuniqueid process_indx
task_indx int int int varchar (100) varchar (100) decimal(26, 8) decimal(18, 3) varchar (100) bigint bigint
no
yes
yes
yes
yes no
yes
yes
yes yes fromtimeutc datetime
yes fromtime datetime
yes the code of the site (referred to in the data mart reports as data hub) (1,2,3...)
the code of the task type the use of the process in a specific context the code of the process instance (string) the code of the task instance (string) not currently in use the duration of the segment in seconds (for example, 132.132) the unique code of the process instance a unique id for each process instance, defined by the sql server (number) a unique id for each task instance, defined by the sql server (number) the segment start time (in utc time) ('2014-01-15 13:28:42.654')
the segment start time (in local time) ('2014-01-15 13:28:42.654') solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 370 - a: data mart schema dwh_task_fact column name data type nullable description totimeutc
datetime
yes totime
datetime
yes taskeventtotimeutc
datetime
yes taskeventtotime
datetime
yes processeventtotimeutc datetime
yes processeventtotime datetime
yes agentid taskeventindx taskeventtype measure_val int bigint varchar(50) decimal(18, 3) stop_reason_id int
yes
yes
yes
yes yes the segment end time (in utc time) ('2014-01-15 13:28:42.654')
the segment end time (in local time) ('2014-01-15 13:28:42.654') the task event end time (in utc time) ('2014-01-15 13:28:42.654') the task event end time (in local time) ('2014-01-15 13:28:42.654') the process event end time (in utc time) ('2014-01-15 13:28:42.654') the process event end time (in local time) ('2014-01-15 13:28:42.654') the code of the agent in data mart (for example, 0,1,2,...) a unique id for each task instance event , defined by the sql server (number) the type of task instance event the value of the process efficiency - measured according to a definition in the real-time designer the id assigned to the stop reason created in the real-time designer desktop process monitor.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 371 - a: data mart schema dwh_path_fact dwh_path_fact the dwh_path_fact table contains raw data on the paths.
column name data type nullable description indx numeric(18)
no the operational process instance index fromtimeutc datetime
no totimeutc datetime
yes pageid applicationpathindx siteid agentid teamid qtagid pagename appserialid int int int int int int nvarchar (900) smalint secondsduration decimal(18, 3)
yes
yes
yes
yes
yes
yes
yes
yes yes the segment start time (in utc time)
('2014-01-15 13:28:42.654')
the segment to time (in utc time) ('2014- 01-15 13:28:42.654') the code (index) of the page display name a unique id for each application path defined by the sql server the code of the site (referred to in the data mart reports as data hub) (1,2,3...)
the code of the agent in data mart (for example, 0,1,2,...)
the code of the team of agents (for example, 0,1,2,...) the use of the process in a specific context the page display name the ordinal number of the application in the process, where the duration is higher than 5 seconds in the operational database the duration of the segment in seconds (for example, 132.132) solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 372 - a: data mart schema dwh_path_fact column name data type nullable description processtypeid int
yes a primary key that points to the wfm_ process_type.indx field processname nvarchar(50)
yes the name of the process instances type processclientid int
yes the code of the process instances type (number) kpi_name kpi_value measure_val nvarchar(50)
yes decimal(14, 5) decimal(18, 3)
yes yes the value of the process efficiency - measured according to a definition in the real-time designer solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 373 - a: data mart schema dwh_process_instance_fact dwh_process_instance_fact this table contains details on the desktop analytics process instances.
column name data type nullable description process_indx processuniqueid bigint varchar (250)
no yes process_type_indx
decimal(9)
yes processname varchar(50) siteid agentid
int int
yes
no
yes processstartdate datetime
no processenddate datetime
yes processstartdateutc datetime yes processenddateutc datetime
yes processnetduration processholdduration decimal(18, 3) decimal(18, 3)
yes yes a unique id for each process instance, defined by the sql server (number) the unique code of the process instance a foreign key to the related process entry type the name assigned to the process the code of the site (referred to in the data mart reports as data hub) (1,2,3...)
the code of the agent in data mart (for example, 0,1,2,...)
the process start date ('2014-01-15 13:28:42.654')
the process end date ('2014-01-15 13:28:42.654')
the process start date in utc ('2014-01- 15 13:28:42.654')
the process end date in utc ('2014-01-15 13:28:42.654')
the net duration of all process events of the same type for the aggregation day the duration of all process events of the same type for the aggregation day during a "hold" state solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 374 - a: data mart schema dwh_off_desktop_user_reporting_fact column name data type nullable description processidleduration processlockduration processtotalduration decimal(18, 3) decimal(18, 3) decimal(18, 3)
yes
yes yes the duration of all process events of the same type for the aggregation day during an "idle" state the duration of all process events of the same type for the aggregation day during a "lock" state the duration of all process events for the aggregation day dwh_off_desktop_user_reporting_fact this table contains details on the desktop analytics user off-desktop reasons.
column name data type nullable description siteid agentid off_desktop_reason_id start_time stop_time utc_start_time utc_stop_time int int int datetime datetime datetime datetime
no
no
no
no
no
no
no the code of the site (referred to in the data mart reports as data hub)
(1,2,3...)
the id of the off desktop reason the off desktop reason start time (in local time) the off desktop reason stop time (in local time) the off desktop reason start time (in utc time) the off desktop reason stop time (in utc time) solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 375 - a: data mart schema dwh_off_desktop_user_reporting_fact column name data type nullable description duration int dtdmmodifydate
datetime
no
yes the duration of the off desktop reason the modification date of the off desktop reason solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 376 - a: data mart schema aggregated data fact tables aggregated data fact tables the following section details the data mart database aggregated data fact tables.
data mart includes two types of fact tables: raw data fact tables (transactions): dwh_agentstateapppage_fact dwh_task_fact aggregated data fact tables, whereby data from transactions is aggregated and prepared for cognos reports: dwh_application_day_fact dwh_process_day_fact dwh_applicationprocess_day_fact dwh_task_day_fact dwh_application_day_fact dwh_process_day_fact dwh_applicationprocess_day_fact dwh_task_day_fact 378 381 384 387 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 377 - dwh_application_day_fact the dwh_application_day_fact table shows the daily aggregated data of application events.
a: data mart schema dwh_application_day_fact solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 378 - a: data mart schema dwh_application_day_fact entity (id) source name dwh_ agents_dim dwh_ application_
pages_dim dwh_ agents_dim dwh_ agents_dim dwh_ application_
pages_dim column name data type nullable description aggdate datetime no siteid int no agentid teamid pageid applicationcount int int int int
no
no
no no applicationduration decimal(18, 3))
yes applicationidleduration decimal(18, 3))
yes the day (local time) of the data aggregation the code of the site (referred to in the data mart reports as data hub) (1,2,3...)
the code of the agent in data mart (for example, 0,1,2,...)
the code of the team of agents (for example, 0,1,2,...)
the code of the display name of the page the number of page events of the same pageid the duration of all page events of the same type for the aggregation day and agent during a "log in" state the duration of all page events of the same type for the aggregation day and agent during an "idle" state solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 379 - column name data type nullable description a: data mart schema dwh_application_day_fact entity (id) source name applicationlockduration decimal(18, 3))
yes segmentduration decimal(18, 3))
yes segmentidleduration decimal(18, 3))
yes segmentlockduration decimal(18, 3))
yes the duration of all page events of the same type for the aggregation day and agent during a "lock" state the duration of all segments of the same type for the aggregation day and agent during a "log in" state the duration of all segments of the same type for the aggregation day and agent during an "idle" state the duration of all segments of the same type for the aggregation day and agent during a "lock" state solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 380 - dwh_process_day_fact the dwh_process_day_fact table shows the daily aggregated data of process events (instances).
a: data mart schema dwh_process_day_fact solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 381 - column name data type nullable description a: data mart schema dwh_process_day_fact entity (id) source name aggdate siteid agentid teamid processid qtagid processcount datetime int int int int int int processduration decimal(18, 3))
no no
no
no
no
no
yes yes the day (local time) of the data aggregation the code of the site (referred to in the data mart reports as data hub) (1,2,3...)
dwh_ sites_
dim dwh_ agents_
dim dwh_ agents_
dim dwh_ process_ dim dwh_ qtag_ dim the code of the agent in data mart (for example, 0,1,2,...)
the code of the team of agents (for example, 0,1,2,...)
the code of the process type the use of the process in a specific context the number of process events (instances) of the same process id the duration of all process events of the same type for the aggregation day and agent during a "log in" state solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 382 - column name data type nullable description a: data mart schema dwh_process_day_fact entity (id) source name processidleduration processlockduration processholdduration processnetduration decimal(18, 3)) decimal(18, 3)) decimal(18, 3)) decimal(18, 3))
yes
yes
yes yes the duration of all process events of the same type for the aggregation day and agent during an "idle" state the duration of all process events of the same type for the aggregation day and agent during a "lock" state the duration of all process events of the same type for the aggregation day and agent during a "hold" state the net duration of all process events of the same type for the aggregation day and agent.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 383 - a: data mart schema dwh_applicationprocess_day_fact dwh_applicationprocess_day_fact the dwh_applicationprocess_day_fact table shows the daily aggregated data of application events during any process.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 384 - column name data type nullable description a: data mart schema dwh_applicationprocess_day_fact aggdate datetime
no siteid agentid teamid pageid processid qtagid applicationcount int int int int int int int applicationduration decimal(18, 3))
no no
no
no
no
no
yes yes the day (local time) of the data aggregation the code of the site (referred to in the data mart reports as data hub) (1,2,3...)
the code of the agent in data mart (for example, 0,1,2,...)
the code of the team of agents (for example, 0,1,2,...)
the code of the display name of the page the code of the process type entity (id) source name dwh_sites_ dim dwh_ agents_dim dwh_ agents_dim dwh_ application_
pages_dim dwh_ process_
dim the use of the process in a specific context dwh_
qtag_dim the number of page events of the same pageid the duration of all application events of the same type for the aggregation day and agent during a "log in" state solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 385 - column name data type nullable description a: data mart schema dwh_applicationprocess_day_fact entity (id) source name segmentduration decimal(18, 3))
yes the duration of all segments of the same type for the aggregation day and agent during a "log in" state solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 386 - dwh_task_day_fact the dwh_task_day_fact table shows the daily aggregated data of task events (instances).
a: data mart schema dwh_task_day_fact solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 387 - column name data type nullable description aggdate siteid agentid teamid taskid qtagid taskcount taskduration datetime int int int int int int decimal(18, 3))
taskidleduration decimal(18, 3))
yes a: data mart schema dwh_task_day_fact entity (id) source name dwh_ sites_
dim dwh_ agents_
dim dwh_ agents_
dim dwh_ tasks_ dim dwh_ qtag_ dim
no
no
no
no the day (local time) of the data aggregation the code of the site (referred to in the data mart reports as data hub) (1,2,3...)
the code of the agent in data mart (for example, 0,1,2,...)
the code of the team of agents (for example, 0,1,2,...)
no the code of the task type
no
yes
yes the use of the process in a specific context the number of task events (instances) of the same taskid the duration of all tasks of the same type for the aggregation day and agent during a "log in" state the duration of all tasks of the same type for the aggregation day and agent during an "idle" state solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 388 - column name data type nullable description a: data mart schema dwh_task_day_fact entity (id) source name tasklockduration decimal(18, 3))
yes taskholdduration decimal(18, 3))
yes tasknetduration decimal(18, 3))
yes the duration of all tasks s of the same type for the aggregation day and agent during a "lock" state the duration of all tasks of the same type for the aggregation day and agent during a "hold" state the net duration of all tasks of the same type for the aggregation day and agent solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 389 - data mart objects data mart entities data mart durations data mart hierarchies a: data mart schema data mart objects 391 392 393 to enable administrators and database managers to access and manage the data mart database schema, the data mart features the real-time reporting presentation layer, which is comprised of the following types of objects: entities: agents, applications, processes, qtag, relative dates, agent hierarchy levels, and static gantt interval daily durations: daily process duration, daily task duration, daily application duration, and daily application duration (via process) hierarchies: applications, agents, processes, and processes without tasks to view these objects in the ibm cognos query studio 1.
select and insert an item from the tree or drag and drop the item into the query report.
2. press the ctrl key on your keyboard and click to select multiple items in the tree or report.
3. right-click report item headings to access commonly-used actions.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 390 - data mart entities the data mart database schema features seven entities that support the reporting functionalities: a: data mart schema data mart entities agents applications processes qtag relative dates agent hierarchy levels static gantt interval data hubs agent states each entity is comprised of a series of column that are derived from the database tables.
unlike the hierarchies or durations in this schema, entities are flat, meaning they each components in the entity is a single component.
by dragging and dropping multiple components from the tree into the report, the user can create a customized report showing the required entity information.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 391 - data mart durations the data mart database schema features a daily duration options with four daily options: a: data mart schema data mart durations daily process duration daily task duration daily application duration daily application duration (via process) each duration is comprised of a series of column that are derived from the database tables.
by dragging and dropping multiple components from the tree into the report, the user can create a customized report showing the required duration information.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 392 - a: data mart schema data mart hierarchies data mart hierarchies the data mart database schema features four hierarchies: applications hierarchy: all applications site (referred to in the data mart reports as data hub) application application page agents hierarchy: all sites (data hubs) level 1...9 processes hierarchy: all processes site (data hub) process task processes hierarchy (without task): all processes site (data hub) process solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 393 - a: data mart schema data mart hierarchies each hierarchy is comprised of a series of column that are derived from the database tables.
by dragging and dropping multiple components from the tree into the report, the user can create a customized report showing the required information.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 394 - b b:using the recording method for defining processes and tasks recording workflow process recording toolbar how to record an employee session recording pane filter area trigger tab snapshot tab creating a process contents 398 399 401 402 407 408 410 411 a recording approach can be used to define processes and tasks in the business logic module tab.
the recording approach enables you to record an employee's session, and later use the recorded events to automatically generate the process tree in the business logic tab.
this approach provides an additional method for creating processes and tasks in designer.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 395 - b: using the recording method for defining processes and tasks b: using the recording method for defining processes and tasks important!
after a process and its tasks have been created (using either the standard method or the recording approach), you must complete their configuration by defining their properties.
for more details see configuring a process and its tasks on page 129 and configuring tasks on page 140.
the following describes the items in this window: recording toolbar, as described in process recording toolbar on page 399.
: begins recording an employee's session.
this action displays the process .configuring a manual process (desktop work tracker) on page 168 for details).
: creates the manual processes tree in the business logic tab (see the system validates the logic before creating the process tree.
if there is a problem creating a process, such as when a task is identified without a start condition, an error message is displayed.
: creates the automatic processes tree in the business logic tab.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 396 - b: using the recording method for defining processes and tasks b: using the recording method for defining processes and tasks the system validates the logic before creating the process tree.
if there is a problem creating a process, such as when a task is identified without a start condition, an error message is displayed.
: saves a recording as a *.csv file.
selection window in which you browse to select the required recording.
: loads a previously saved recording.
this action opens a standard file solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 397 - b: using the recording method for defining processes and tasks recording workflow recording workflow to define a process using the recording method: first step: create a recording of the process.
this recording shows each step in a separate row and differentiates between the applications in focus and any screen event.
second step: configure and edit each relevant row for both process-related information and screen events linkage.
recording a process using the recording method enables you to build a skeleton of the process, meaning roughly 80% of the process.
third step: to complete the process’s definition, you must still add the relevant screen elements, business entities and business logic using standard methods.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 398 - b: using the recording method for defining processes and tasks process recording toolbar process recording toolbar the process recording toolbar, shown below, is used to control the recording process and to mark events with the applicable trigger type in the recording pane.
the process recorder is used to streamline the process creation in the real-time designer.
not only can the user record a process based on application monitoring, but the user can also record a process based on both application monitoring and screen connectivity.
this enriches the process and allows the user to add complexity and resolution to a process via the simple interface of the process recorder.
for further details on the recording pane, see recording pane on page 402.
the process recording toolbar contains the following tools: stop recording stops the recording process.
this action closes the toolbar and returns to real-time designer.
process start enters process start in the trigger type field for the selected event.
task start task pause enters task start in the trigger type field for the selected event.
enters task pause in the trigger type field for the selected event.
task resume enters task resume in the trigger type field for the selected event.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 399 - b: using the recording method for defining processes and tasks process recording toolbar task stop enters task stop in the trigger type field for the selected event.
process stop enters process stop in the trigger type field for the selected event.
screen element enters screen element in the trigger type field for the selected event.
this tool captures a screen element.
it marks the element in a third party application and retains it’s properties.
after successful capture, the screen element is included as an item in the physical objects tab.
for further capture details, and for further screen element details, see real-time solutions designer user guide.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 400 - b: using the recording method for defining processes and tasks how to record an employee session how to record an employee session to begin recording the activities of a user: 1. click in the module tab bar.
2. once you start the recording process, all user events are recorded in the recording pane until you click the stop recording button in the process recording toolbar.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 401 - b: using the recording method for defining processes and tasks recording pane recording pane recording pane information - per column per event 403 the top of the recording pane lists events recorded during the session.
each row represents an event.
rows are created automatically each time an event is detected in the active application.
whenever you click a tool in the process recording toolbar, a value is entered into the trigger type field in the recording pane for that row, and a default name is assigned in the object name column.
recording pane example series of events: the recording pane above shows the following series of events: 1. microsoft word was the initial application in focus.
2. the calculator was opened and became the focus.
3. internet explorer was started and the www.yahoo.com page was opened.
4. the calculator became the application in focus.
5. microsoft word became the application in focus.
note: observe that the rows in the sample figure above do not have a value in the object name column and show ignored in the trigger type field, as no tools were clicked in the process recording toolbar while recording the employee session.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 402 - b: using the recording method for defining processes and tasks recording pane information - per column per event recording pane information - per column per event the recording pane contains the following columns of information for each event: note: the columns can be edited using the filter pane (see filter area on page 407) and recorded event pane (see trigger tab on page 408).
application: specifies the name of the application in focus.
window title: specifies the name as shown in the window title bar.
browser url: specifies the url in the browser when the application is internet explorer.
selection: indicates whether this event is for an application, a browser url or window title.
time: specifies the time when the event was received by the recorder, meaning the start time for the event.
duration: specifies the duration of the event.
for example, how long a specific window remained open.
object name: specifies the name of the process.
this value will become the name of the process in the process tree that is generated using the the module tab bar.
trigger type: indicates how to classify the event.
examples are process start, process stop, task start, task stop and so on.
when you click a tool in the process recording toolbar, the trigger type field for the selected event is automatically updated to reflect the trigger type option in designated by that tool.
for example, when you click the task start start is entered in the trigger type field for the event.
operator: specifies the logical condition that applies in an expression, such as equals, does not equal, matches and so on.
tool, the value task solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 403 - b: using the recording method for defining processes and tasks recording pane information - per column per event note: the operators listed are dependant on the property type.
right argument: specifies the term on the right side in an expression.
wildcards can be used to build expressions.
combination: combines two values in the trigger type column with an and or an or operator.
for example, the figure below shows that there are four rows with the object name task1 – two tasks with the task start trigger type and two tasks with the task stop trigger type.
you can combine the two task starts with an and condition between them, and combine the two task stops with an or condition between them, as shown below: solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 404 - b: using the recording method for defining processes and tasks recording pane information - per column per event for such combinations, both trigger types do not need to have an or operator to cause or'd behavior.
it is sufficient that the second one or both use an or operator.
in such cases, the first value in the combination column is ignored.
when working with the recorder, you can either use the tools in the process recording toolbar while recording the session, or later select rows in the recording pane and edit their information at the bottom of the window in the recorded event pane.
for example, if the employee processes you are recording are long, you may want to use the tools in the toolbar to fill in the trigger type column as you move through the process.
using the toolbar while the employee is working is helpful to indicate to yourself what was happening at the time.
typically, you will need to go back and fill in the object name at the end of the recording session.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 405 - b: using the recording method for defining processes and tasks recording pane information - per column per event solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 406 - b: using the recording method for defining processes and tasks filter area filter area the filter pane at the bottom of the window enables you to filter the information displayed in the recording pane.
simply enter your filter criteria and then click the apply filter button to display filtered results in the recording pane.
note: the filter is case sensitive.
to ignore case sensitivity, use the ignore case argument from the middle argument list.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 407 - b: using the recording method for defining processes and tasks trigger tab trigger tab the trigger tab at the bottom of the window displays details for the event selected in the recording pane.
it contains the recorded event’s configured condition parameters.
use this area to manually edit the parameters for the selected event.
any modifications you make here are reflected in the recording pane.
for example: you can select a task in the trigger type field and then enter a name for it in the object name field by typing one in or by selecting a name from the drop-down that lists other tasks within the same process.
when a screen event, which was created using the screen element tool, is selected in the recording pane, the following occurs: the trigger tab displays only those details that are relevant to the selected screen event.
in addition, a snapshot tab becomes available (see snapshot tab on page 410).
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 408 - b: using the recording method for defining processes and tasks trigger tab the screen event properties can be changed.
to do this, click the property or event drop- down list.
the drop-down displays only those options relevant to the selected screen element.
these options can be one of the following: (bell) event (i.e. something happened)
y/n boolean (true or false) t 12 text number solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 409 - b: using the recording method for defining processes and tasks snapshot tab snapshot tab the snapshot tab at the bottom of the window displays a snapshot of the captured screen element.
the snapshot was captured using the screen element tool (see process recording toolbar on page 399).
the snapshot displays highlighted areas, which are the selected screen event’s properties.
for further screen element capture details, and for further screen element details, see designer user guide.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 410 - b: using the recording method for defining processes and tasks creating a process creating a process click create process to create the process tree in the business logic tab.
a sample of what you see after clicking this button is shown below: solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 411 - b: using the recording method for defining processes and tasks creating a process in this example, you can see that the process tree includes a process named email handling, which has two tasks: read email and reply to email.
note that using the process recording method only automates some of the work in defining the process.
logic additions still need to be handled, such as adding screen elements, business entities, business logic, the unique id and so on for the process.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 412 - c c:integration with third-party applications this section explains how to integrate your third-party or homegrown application with desktop analytics.
application monitoring rest api resolver rest api openam - best practice for token management contents 414 419 420 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 413 - c: integration with third-party applications application monitoring rest api application monitoring rest api the application monitoring rest api enables integration between a third-party application or your own application and desktop analytics to allow sending desktop analytics data requests via the api.
only the classes and functions described in this section are supported.
contents user application rest api description this api returns a list of active applications on an agent desktop for a specified date range.
if no applications are open, then the agent state is returned.
for example, you can show during playback, alongside agent audio, which applications are open on the desktop.
prerequisites to invoke this api the site must have: a data mart desktop analytics application monitoring api service enabled solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 414 - c: integration with third-party applications user application rest api post installation important!
after completing installation, you must enable and start the rtserver application monitoring service windows service.
process when using the application monitoring api you must follow the guidelines for token management which are detailed in openam - best practice for token management on page 420.
request method: post http header: content-type: application/json uri: https://<server name>:1912/rtserver/ms/am/applications solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 415 - c: integration with third-party applications user application rest api request userid: mandatory field.
the apa user id for which you want to retrieve application monitoring data.
requestinguser: the user id of the user requesting the data.
used for tracking purposes in the log file.
starttime: mandatory field.
start time for range of data retrieved in utc
. format: yyyy-mm-ddthh:mm:ss.sss endtime: mandatory field.
end time for range of data retrieved in utc. format: yyyy-mm-ddthh:mm:ss.sss the time range for data cannot be more than 2 hours.
response: contains the following parameters: applications: starttime: format: yyyy-mm-ddthh:mm:ss.sss+0000 endtime: format: yyyy-mm-ddthh:mm:ss.sss+0000 applicationname: active application category: category of the active application agentstate: user state note: response returns either applicationname + category or agentstate, not both.
userid: user id from the request.
example the following is a sample json request and response.
request body: { } "userid":"qa\\gl8", "requestinguser":"", "starttime":"2018-07-05t11:37:00.458", "endtime":"2018-07-05t12:00:00.300" solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 416 - c: integration with third-party applications user application rest api response body: "applications": [ { }, { }, { }, { }, { "starttime": "2018-07-05t11:37:13.157+0000", "endtime": "2018-07-05t11:37:18.490+0000", "applicationname": "ssms", "category": "ssms_dn" "starttime": "2018-07-05t11:37:18.490+0000", "endtime": "2018-07-05t11:37:19.563+0000", "applicationname": "rtclient", "category": "rtclient_dn" "starttime": "2018-07-05t11:37:19.563+0000", "endtime": "2018-07-05t11:53:42.423+0000", "agentstate": "idle" "starttime": "2018-07-05t11:53:42.423+0000", "endtime": "2018-07-05t11:53:45.433+0000", "applicationname": "rtclient", "category": "rtclient_dn" "starttime": "2018-07-05t11:53:45.433+0000", "endtime": "2018-07-05t11:54:04.453+0000", "applicationname": "explorer", "category": "business related" } ], "userid":"qa\\gl8", } solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 417 - c: integration with third-party applications services and log files services and log files for application monitoring, the microservice rtserveramservice is installed on all real-time servers.
rtserveramservice service name rtserveramservice windows name rtserver application monitoring service description nice application monitoring api log files <install dir>\logs\rtsmicroservices\rtserveramservice.out.log <install dir>\logs\rtsmicroservices\rtserveramservice.err.log <install dir>\logs\rtsmicroservices\rtserveramservice.wrapper.log setting log level 1. edit <install dir>\rtsmicroservices\rtserveramservice\rtserveramservice.xml and set --logging.level.com.nice.rti.am=debug 2. restart the microservice.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 418 - c: integration with third-party applications resolver rest api resolver rest api this section explains how to integrate your third-party or homegrown application with desktop analytics.
any class or function other than those described in this section are not supported.
resolver authorization api description the resolver can check is the server in question belongs to the site.
if it does, configuration continues.
if the server does not belong to the site, authorization continues to the next server.
prerequisites process when using the resolver authorization api you must follow the guidelines for token management which are detailed inopenam - best practice for token management on the next page.
request method: get http header: content-type: authorization/json uri: http://<server name>:1925/rtserver/ms/sp/authorization uri: https://<server
name>:1926/rtserver/ms/sp/authorization request no parameter required.
response: contains the following parameters: response code if an exception occurs, the description is included in the response.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 419 - c: integration with third-party applications openam - best practice for token management openam - best practice for token management when working in a secured mode, if you are a 3rd party application and want to manage tokens manually, you will need to follow these best practices.
best practice for token management 420 best practice for token management the policy agent requires you to use a token in order to allow you to access the real-time system.
access is provided through http web request, and there are two methods for obtaining a token: using single sign-on login using manual login once you receive the token using one of these methods, proceed to invoking the rtserver webservice on page 422.
important!
when the token expires, you will need to follow the explanation in handling token expirations on page 422 to obtain a new token.
obtaining a token using single sign-on (sso) login the sso login method delegates the process of generating the token to the operating system via the kerberos protocol.
the username and password that will be used in this login method are those of the currently logged-in windows user.
to acquire the token: 1. send an http web request in the following way: a. set the request preauthenticate to true.
b. set allowautoredirect to true.
c. set the request accept to "*/*".
d. set the request method to post.
e. set the request contenttype to "text/xml;charset=utf-8".
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 420 - c: integration with third-party applications best practice for token management f. set the request url to openam (for example: http://apollo-13.e- glue.com:1911/openam/ui/login?module=winsso).
g. set the request credentials to credentialcache.defaultcredentials.
2. when you receive the http web response, extract the token from the response by searching in the cookiecontainer for a cookie with the name: "iplanetdirectorypro" (the value is the token itself).
note: when using the sso method, if the http web request is set correctly to the credentialcache.defaultcredentials in .net, the kerberos protocol will use the windows credentials of the currently logged-in user for authentication purposes.
obtaining a token using manual login manual login enables you to obtain the token using any approved username and password.
to acquire the token: 1. send an http web request in the following way: a. set the request preauthenticate to true.
b. set allowautoredirect to true.
c. set the request accept to "*/*".
d. set the request method to post.
e. set the request contenttype and mediatype to "application/json".
f. set the request url to openam (for example: http://apollo-13.e- glue.com:1911/openam/json/authenticate).
g. set the request headers in the following way: a. add the header key "x-openam-username" and the value username - without the domain (for example: “gl0”).
b. add the header key "x-openam-password" and the value password.
h. in the request body, enter "{}".
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 421 - c: integration with third-party applications best practice for token management 2.
when you receive the http web response, extract the token from the response by searching in the response body for a key with name: "tokenid" (the value is the token itself).
invoking the rtserver webservice to add the token to the soap request: 1. add the token you received (through sso login or manual login) to the soap request.
2. add the following to the header key: "cookie" with the value "iplanetdirectorypro=" and the acquired token.
handling token expirations if you receive a web response containing a header with the key "location" , which redirects you to the openam login url, this indicates that you need to acquire an updated token.
to obtain an updated token: 1. log in using sso or manual login.
2. obtain the resulting token and add the new token to the soap request (see invoking the rtserver webservice above).
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 422 - d:desktop analytics best practices create and define your desktop analytics solution desktop analytics reports guidelines perform routine desktop analytics activities d contents 424 443 444 use the desktop analytics best practices to ensure you make the most of your desktop analytics reports.
by following these best practices for creating your desktop analytics solution, and by carrying out routine desktop analytics activities, you will ensure maximum effectiveness of your real-time solution which will result in improved organizational performance.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 423 - d: desktop analytics best practices create and define your desktop analytics solution create and define your desktop analytics solution use the following best practices to define desktop applications analytics in the most recommended way, at a new site.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 424 - d: desktop analytics best practices mapping display names and categories mapping display names and categories the first step towards managing your site is to map existing and frequently used applications and web pages to display names and to categories.
this procedure is broken down into a few steps, in the following procedure.
remember to use the tips!
see tips when mapping display names and categories on page 429.
to map applications and web pages to display names and categories: 1. create a list of your applications and web pages with which your agents work and also interact.
do this by selecting one of the following methods: manually, by creating two (2) lists: frequently used applications and web pages.
frequently used websites.
automated, by using the import display names option in the real-time designer.
see importing selected application/page names into display names table on page 101 for details.
considerations: using the manual method you can prepare the list ahead of time and have a completely clean database, where all major applications are defined ahead of time.
the automated option requires 2-3 days of monitoring a small group of agents.
although this method creates unmapped data that will stay unmapped even after display name mapping, it will allow future applications to be mapped in a more automated and client- activity related manner.
unmapped data is not an issue due to the following: there is a relatively small amount of dirty data, which will diminish with time raw data will always exist in the database due the fact that client activities are not deterministic.
2. define the business goal.
in order to define business categories, you must define the business goal (business direction) of the categories.
make sure this is planned wisely as you should only define one category per display name.
example: following are examples of business directions: to find bottle-necks in productivity.
to see how agents spend their time at work.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 425 - d: desktop analytics best practices mapping display names and categories 3.
create categories.
this is an important point in the solution as categories are meant to reflect the ultimate business goal your company expects to achieve when using the desktop analytics solution.
categories can be broad or narrow, based on the business needs.
category names must be short, as later on they appear in the reports.
example: if you define your business goal as finding bottle-necks in productivity, then you might use the following categories: productive (in other words, productive to the business process).
business related (in other words, non-productive, but business related).
unproductive (non-productive to the business process).
if you define your business goal as seeing how agents spend their time at work, then you might use the following categories: business applications.
administrative tools.
social networks.
4. import and map the applications and web pages to display names.
you can use the import display names option in the real-time designer.
you do this so that the applications and web pages are more indicative and easily recognizable in generated reports.
review the mapping tips on tips when mapping display names and categories on page 429.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 426 - example:
d: desktop analytics best practices mapping display names and categories 5.
sort the list of display names into the categories.
important: you can only use one (1) category per display name.
if you use more than one category per display name, the display name will be will be counted per category in the reports.
in other words, if two categories are used on the same display name, the report will count this twice.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 427 - example:
d: desktop analytics best practices mapping display names and categories 6.
if you have process monitoring, see define desktop process monitoring - phase 1 on page 432.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 428 - d: desktop analytics best practices tips when mapping display names and categories tips when mapping display names and categories use the following tips when you map display names and categories.
use display names to control final reports below.
review application/web page mapping on the next page.
changing display names on page 431.
use display names to control final reports by using display names wisely, you will greatly increase the reports performance and meaningfulness, and will consequently create a more refined focus of the data displayed in the final reports.
use display names to group applications and web pages.
example: you want to know the amount of time agents spend on office applications.
what do you do?
you must group similar applications and web pages to the same display name.
use wildcards to reflect the lowest level of information you want to see in your reports.
example: you want to know how agents’ time is split between flights and hotels research.
what do you do?
you must add a wildcard in the application/web page name at the lowest level you are willing to see in the reports.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 429 - d: desktop analytics best practices tips when mapping display names and categories review application/web page mapping make sure that you define the same display name to applications and web pages that have the same meaning.
example: you incorrectly defined *cnn* and *cnn.com* as different display names.
this will result in the system randomly choosing between the display names, and as such distorting the data displayed in the reports.
what do you do?
make sure that the same display name is used for both these entries.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 430 - d: desktop analytics best practices tips when mapping display names and categories changing display names once an application or web page is mapped to a display name, the display name text can be changed.
this change will be reflected in the reports for past data as well.
but if the application or web page was not mapped, past data will remain uncategorized.
when you first map a display name or category, this does not map the display name or category in the data from that time backwards.
in other words, the reports will show the newly mapped display name or category only from that point in time when you mapped the display name or category.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 431 - d: desktop analytics best practices define desktop process monitoring - phase 1 define desktop process monitoring - phase 1 defining which processes to monitor configure start and stop triggers for the processes define dynamic process properties general process definition tips review problematic process properties 433 435 436 437 437 in order to produce reports of value to your business, you must define which processes will be monitored.
later on, these processes will be created and defined in the real-time designer by the business analyst.
the desktop process analytics definition is built in phases and requires continuous iterations.
as such, it is recommended to complete it in a few phases.
in this way processes are built up gradually, and more efficiently.
in other words, you use the procedure below to complete the desktop application analytics (daa) and desktop process analytics (dpa) discovery.
note:desktop analytics reports only on completed process instances.
in phase 1, from the list of processes that you define, you select between one and three processes and only define them with start/stop processes (with no tasks).
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 432 - d: desktop analytics best practices defining which processes to monitor defining which processes to monitor to define which processes to monitor: 1. list the processes that take up most of the employees’ work volume.
keep in mind that normally, 20% of the processes take up 80% of employees’ work volume.
2. review and consider the following: which groups and/or teams need process analytics the most.
which processes do you already recognize as being problematic.
as we advise selecting only a small number of processes in the beginning (1-3) you may not be able to cover the entire organization in this phase (phase i).
3. add to the list those processes that are known to be inefficient, or that are bottlenecks.
4. add to the list new processes.
example: 5. (optional) define organizational success measurements and metadata that can be linked directly to the process.
a. using success measurements and data collection activities, you can extract the most value from each process.
keep the following in mind: solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 433 - d: desktop analytics best practices defining which processes to monitor average handle time (aht) is a built in measurement in the sense that this measurement is tracked simply by building a start and a stop trigger.
you can define any measurable (numeric) data as a success measurement.
it can arrive from a screen object, a web service query, or a database query and be linked to the process.
data collection can be extremely valuable and very worthwhile to use, but remember that increasing the number of data collection items will increase the size of the database requirements, so this must be planned carefully.
b.
for each process that you listed, ask the following question: what information can i collect to extract the maximum value out of the process?
note: although data collection is collected with each process instance, in order to have data collection reports, the customer will require a cognos expert to build the data collection reports.
6. remember to use the tips provided in general process definition tips on page 437.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 434 - d: desktop analytics best practices configure start and stop triggers for the processes configure start and stop triggers for the processes although processes can be comprised from many tasks, the main purpose is to make one process with one task (that equals the process).
for discovery this is very efficient as it allows you to spend minimal time for definition on an unknown process structure, with maximum results in which you are able to: review the process average duration (is this what you think you know about this process?)
understand the proportion between net and total time of process handling.
note: this is only available only if a pause was defined in the one task that was created.
understand which applications are used during the process handling.
understand which groups/team/employee require more training per the average handling time (aht) of the process (the process may be too fast or too slow).
if a success measurement was configured, the success rate can be shown in a scorable manner.
take into account the following: triggers must cover multiple ways to start or stop a process.
example: a cancellation request can come from an email, ticket, call or walk-in.
queue tags can be used to identify processes separately, that have the same start or stop triggers.
example: a cancellation request can come from an flight ticket, hotel reservation or from an entire order.
see configuring a process and its tasks on page 129 for details.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 435 - d: desktop analytics best practices define dynamic process properties define dynamic process properties when you define the process properties (unique id and queue tag), use dynamic be assignments.
you do this to reflect: multi instances: these are multiple instances of the same process.
differentiate process instances by unique id. work items: these are work units for which you need to measure completion.
a work item is a group of process instances that share the same unique id. example: multiple agents who handle the same customer using different process types.
queue tag: for the same process type use queue tags as necessary to describe different types of the same process.
see configuring a process and its tasks on page 129 for details.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 436 - d: desktop analytics best practices general process definition tips general process definition tips use the following tips when creating and defining the desktop analytics solution in the real-time designer.
review problematic process properties problem: the unique id is not available when the process starts.
solution - option 1: 1. use a temporary unique id, such as a counter, that is incremented when the process ends.
2. assign an alternate unique id, that is collected when the process ends.
solution - option 2: 1. create a generic process to collect some monitoring information during the process’ ‘blind spots’.
2. create an additional process that starts when the unique id is available.
in this way, information collected for both processes combined will be used to assess this process’ performance.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 437 - d: desktop analytics best practices monitor reports - phase 1 monitor reports - phase 1 once the processes from phase 1 are defined, there is a discovery period in which you track the reports and collect information about the processes.
this is a good time to ensure that the process definition was successful.
in other words, whether you have enough data on the team.
verify that you have included the relevant personnel in the reports distribution.
use the following steps to ensure that the process definition was successful: 1. start by using the average process duration report to collect general information on how the process is managed by the team.
2. continue with the process utilization report to better understand the way processes are handled by the agents.
it will report on the different process states proportions, assuming a pause was defined for the process.
3.
next, use the total application usage - process context report to better understand which applications are used during the process.
this report will help you to understand the amounts of time that are spent in each application during a process.
4. if you linked a success measure to the process, you can use the application path analysis report to understand in higher resolution how the team process management affects their success measurements.
this will enable you to decide for which team/agent personal guidance is required.
using monitor reports - phase 1 will expose which reports are more useful to your organization, and will allow you to define processes in the right way for your organization.
you may need, for example, to create a higher resolution process that will only be a portion of the process you defined.
now what next...?
after seeing the results in monitor reports - phase 1, you need to refine the desktop analytics solution.
use the guidelines in refine your desktop analytics solution on the facing page to fine-tune the output in your reports.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 438 - d: desktop analytics best practices refine your desktop analytics solution refine your desktop analytics solution after your desktop analytics solution has run for a while, and during which time some data was collected on your desktop analytics solution processes, you need to review and refine your desktop analytics solution.
define desktop process monitoring - phase 2 complete process triggers that were missed monitor reports - phase 2 define desktop process monitoring - phase 3 440 440 441 442 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 439 - d: desktop analytics best practices define desktop process monitoring - phase 2 define desktop process monitoring - phase 2 at this point, you will have at least completed define desktop process monitoring - phase 1 in the process definition phase.
in phase 1 you should have selected two to three processes with start/stop processes only (with no tasks).
see page 432.
it is now time to continue with phase 2 of the process definition phase.
in this phase, you select up to 80% of the processes in the list and only define them with start/stop processes (with no tasks).
use the insights you gained from the monitor reports - phase 1 on page 438 to fine-tune the way you define your processes at this stage.
ask the question: were your process triggers correctly defined?
see next section for details.
complete process triggers that were missed once you have expanded the visibility of the reports, you will know from user’s feedback whether your triggers are correctly defined.
example: are the sales group happy with their reports - were the sales triggers correctly defined?
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 440 - d: desktop analytics best practices monitor reports - phase 2 monitor reports - phase 2 once the define desktop process monitoring - phase 2 are defined, there is a discovery period in which you track the reports and collect information about the processes.
this is a good time to ensure that the process definition was successful.
in other words, whether you have enough data on the team.
verify that you have included the relevant personnel in the reports distribution.
use the following steps to ensure that the process definition was successful: 1. start by using the average process duration report to collect general information on how the process is managed by the team.
2. continue with the process utilization report to better understand the way processes are handled by the agents.
it will report on the different process states proportions.
3.
next, use the total application usage - process context report to better understand which applications are used during the process.
this report will help you to understand the amounts of time that are spent in each application during a process, assuming a pause was defined for the process.
4. if you linked a kpi to the process, you can use the kpi based application path analysis report to understand in higher resolution how the team process management affects their kpis.
it will enable you to decide for which team/agent personal guidance is required.
this reports monitoring phase will expose which reports are more useful to your organization, and will allow you to define processes in the right way for your organization.
you may need, for example, to create a higher resolution process that will only be a portion of the process you defined.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 441 - d: desktop analytics best practices define desktop process monitoring - phase 3 define desktop process monitoring - phase 3 now that the main process skeleton is stable (in other words you have completed define desktop process monitoring - phase 1 on page 432 and define desktop process monitoring - phase 2 on page 440), and most potential processes are defined, you may need to take the next step and create a high resolution process for those processes that remain problematic, or for those reports from which you could not extract what the problem/issue was, while only using a start/stop process.
in order to do this you will need to create one or more tasks per process, each with a start, stop, and optionally with a pause trigger as well.
when one or more tasks are active (started or resumed), the process with which it is associated will appear as "active".
if all of the tasks are paused or stopped, the process will appear as "on hold".
see step d in configuring an automatic process on page 131 for details.
note: process tasks do not appear in the cognos reports.
remember that pause and resume triggers are important so that the process will pause if the employee is engaged in an activity that is not related to the process.
this means that even though the process is paused, the total duration of a process includes the time in which it was paused.
the net time calculation will omit the pause time.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 442 - d: desktop analytics best practices desktop analytics reports guidelines desktop analytics reports guidelines use the following guidelines to make the most of your desktop analytics reports.
see desktop analytics reports on page 185 for details on running and viewing reports.
very often, desktop client data from employees' end of day is cached on their desktop until they come in the next morning.
therefore it is a best practice to pull yesterday reports after all employees have logged in for that day, ensuring that cached data has moved to the server for reporting.
verify that all unused schedule reports are removed from the list so as to not take up valuable resource time.
utilize the concept of drill down analysis on reports.
example: pull the productivity report for a group and if you see behavior that is suspicious or different within that group's activity, use the application usage report to see specifics for that person or persons.
scheduling vs. on-the-fly reporting: use on-the-fly for reporting on a specific day.
use scheduling for reporting on routine time ranges (yesterday, week to date, and so on).
the longer your time range, it is advisable to use scheduling reporting as this will improve system performance.
pick the relevant time range.
keep in mind the following: the longer time range is selected, the more time it will take the report to run.
running reports on the complete database can lower the system performance.
the results are aggregated to the whole time period, so only use the time range required (daily vs. one month if you need to see just one day).
the results will be presented per the completed time range.
example: if your time range is 1 month, you will receive the results aggregated for the 1 month.
in other words, you will not be able to drill down to a time range that is less or higher than the time range that you selected.
pick relevant groupings and category filters to meet the requirements of the report.
you can create customized reports only with a cognos expert.
note that special consideration should be given to performance aspects during reports development.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 443 - d: desktop analytics best practices perform routine desktop analytics activities perform routine desktop analytics activities use the reports to analyze the cause for spikes in productivity maintain display names and applications use the reports to analyze efficiency vs. productivity use application monitoring to handle compliance issues reflect changes in target applications create a solid partnership between the customer business and it schedule maintenance activities 444 444 445 445 445 446 446 when you are satisfied with your desktop analytics solution results, you must perform routine a number of desktop analytics activities.
use the following routine activities after the desktop analytics solution is running successfully.
note: to avoid degradation of the data mart's performance, it is recommended that employees log out of the system at the end of their shifts.
use the reports to analyze the cause for spikes in productivity bear in mind that there might be initial spikes in production.
this might be caused by employees improving or modifying their normal behavior due to an awareness of being monitored, but over time, normally after an initial startup period, this should stabilize and should not effect the reports.
maintain display names and applications to review the display names, you must import unmapped applications and run the desktop application analytics (daa) reports to help pinpoint the applications and web pages that were used, and which were not mapped to display names.
there is a high probability that some of the unmapped applications and web pages were not initially mapped when you made the list of frequently used applications and web pages.
they must now be defined.
use the following guidelines: if an application or web page is mapped to a display name and to a category, the display name and the category text can be changed.
this change will be reflected in the reports for past data as well.
if an application was not mapped to a display name, it will not appear in reports on past data.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 444 - d: desktop analytics best practices use the reports to analyze efficiency vs. productivity if an application was mapped to a display name, but was not mapped to a category, and if at a later stage you map the display name to a category, the category will be reflected in reports on past data.
the reason for this is that categories are linked to a display name and not to the actual application or web page or url name (raw data).
keep in mind that the categorization of applications and web pages should be an on-going effort.
initially, as a daily activity, it is strongly recommended to review the uncategorized list, and to categorize them.
in time, this will become a weekly, and then eventually a monthly activity.
to refresh your memory see the following: create and define your desktop analytics solution on page 424.
review application/web page mapping on page 430.
use the reports to analyze efficiency vs. productivity if the group has a high percent of desktop productivity, but a low throughput, there is room for improvement.
potential activities that can be derived from insights taken from the reports: training rt guidance using rtpo automation using rtpo use application monitoring to handle compliance issues use application monitoring over a lengthy period of time to effectively measure and handle compliance issues.
example: compliance policy: an it policy requires that employees must lock their computer (ctrl+alt+delete) when leaving the computer.
policy enforcement analysis: a high idle time and low lock time in the desktop application analytics report suggests that an improvement is needed in implementing the compliance policy.
reflect changes in target applications relevant for process monitoring only.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 445 - create a solid partnership between the customer business and it d: desktop analytics best practices communicate with it for changes in target applications, such as: software upgrade change in fields make sure to utilize any new screen elements’ connectivity or new logic required into the real- time designer solution.
create a solid partnership between the customer business and it nice recommends that a solid partnership and processes is created between customer business and customer it so that each knows how they affect each other.
to facilitate this partnership, do the following: create a document for it that lists each application that is used in the process monitoring solution.
mark captured screen elements that are used as process triggers.
verify that it knows to communicate with the business team regarding planned changes and upgrades to the applications.
verify that the business team understands that when they need to modify the desktop analytics solutions, they must do so as necessary, and fully test them prior to the actual upgrade on the desktops.
schedule maintenance activities schedule the following maintenance activities: on the database machine, schedule the following jobs: nice reindex job: schedule recurrence: weekly nice update statistics job: schedule recurrence: nightly backup the database: nice differential backup job: schedule backup: daily nice full backup job: schedule backup: once a week purge the database: solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 446 - d: desktop analytics best practices schedule maintenance activities the purpose of purge database is to maintain data retention.
purge database deletes a configurable amount of data.
we advise performing purge database on a nightly basis.
desktop analytics supports up to 1 year data retention.
if there is no need for 1 year retention, it is advisable to purge more often as it improves the system performance, in terms of report run time, and database health and size.
for more information on how to configure the purge database job, see system administration guide.
only parameters solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 447 - [this page intentionally left blank] e e:desktop analytics - wfm web services desktop analytics collects data and sends it in the form of events and alerts via web services to wfm in real-time.
for detailed information, refer to the back office proficiency suite integration guide.
this information includes: agent state: idle, lock and logoff.
when the idle or lock message is sent, the desktop work tracker activity (reasoncode) is sent with the message.
application analytics messages: the application name provided by the existing tcp (socket-based) aggregator integration.
this requires mapping the display names from the rt designer project to the event sets in wfm.
the application window title and url.
this information is received by wfm but does not appear in the wfm 6.5 ui.
this will be added in a future version of wfm.
process analytics messages: manual process information from the desktop analytics desktop work tracker to wfm.
this information is received by wfm but does not appear in the wfm 6.5 ui.
this will be added in a future version of wfm.
you must create a real-time designer project with desktop work tracker in order to track this information.
see using desktop work tracker on page 158 for more information.
alert messages: alerts and clear alert messages.
this information is received by wfm but does not appear in the wfm 6.5 ui.
this will be added in a future version of wfm.
you can configure which of the following messages will be sent to wfm: agent active application.
agent active process.
agent alert.
agent reported state.
from rtam version 6.4 and wfm version 6.5
it is recommended to use the web services integration (rest api) for real-time integration.
process analytics messages and alert messages are sent using the rest api.
the rest api is defined during the desktop analytics installation.
see installing the desktop analytics client on page 29 for more information.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 449 - e: desktop analytics - wfm web services the wfm connector parameters can be viewed and updated in the rt designer.
1. in rt designer, click the nice button, system settings.
2. expand real-time client > wfm connector.
3. modify the settings as required and click ok.
the following table describes the parameters available in the system settings: field (rt designer system settings) - active alerts threshold element (config) value description wfmacdid active_alerts_ threshold 1 20 the wfm agent acd id. the maximum number of concurrent active alerts that can be sent using the web services.
an alert can be sent and then cleared.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 450 - e: desktop analytics - wfm web services field (rt designer system settings) element (config) value description alert text limit alert_text_limit 1024 active application/page threshold active_application_
threshold 15 (defaul t)
the maximum number of characters that can be sent in an alert.
the active application/page threshold is specified in seconds.
when the rtam client starts, the active application/page is immediately sent to wfm, and then the active application/page is sent according to the defined threshold.
the active application/page is sent when it is has been active (in focus) for a duration that reaches the threshold setting.
for example, if the threshold is set to 15 seconds and the agent moves from window a for 3 seconds > window b for 5 seconds > window c for 15 seconds, only window c is sent to wfm.
if nothing more changes (the agent remains in window c) during the next 15 seconds, no additional message is sent.
note: the agent state events (idle/lock) are sent immediately when they occur and are not affected by this threshold.
when the agent returns from idle/lock, the active application/page is sent immediately.
note: the real-time server (unlike wfm) receives all messages, including all applications/pages that the agent activates.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 451 - e: desktop analytics - wfm web services field (rt designer system settings) element (config) value description sendagentactiveappli cation sendagentactiveappli cation sendagentactiveproce ss sendagentactiveproce ss false false defines whether or not to send the agent active application messages.
defines whether or not to send the agent active process messages.
sendagentalert sendagentalert false defines whether or not to send the agent alert messages.
sendagentreportedst ate sendagentreportedst ate false defines whether or not to send the agent reported state messages.
aggregator messaging protocol protocol aggregator monitor unknown applications monitor_unknown_ application rest/tc p true/fal se rest base url base_url defines whether to use either the rest api or the tcp socket-based aggregator.
defines whether or not to monitor and report on unknown applications, that is, applications that are not defined with display names in the rt designer project.
defines the server url.
this is usually fixed and defined as: http://<host>:<port>/ascws/v1/api/< message type> this setting can be changed in the config file to override the default server url, for example, for testing purposes.
send messages to wfm use_aggregator defines whether or not collect data in real-time (via the aggregator or the rest api).
true/fal se solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 452 - e: desktop analytics - wfm web services field (rt designer system settings) element (config) value description usehttps use_https wfm rta feed reason - max size (tcp only)
wfm_feed_reason_ limit wfm rta feed state - max size (tcp only)
wfm_feed_state_limit wfm secured server port https_port wfm server host address aggregator_address wfm server port aggregator_port defines whether or not to use https.
the authentication/login is always sent using https.
for real-time data sent over tcp (aggregator), this is the maximum length in characters for the reason.
for real-time data sent over tcp (aggregator), this is the maximum length in characters for the state.
the https port for the rest api.
the wfm apache server ip address.
if a load balancer is in use, use the required configured ip address.
the wfm apache server port.
this is for http.
true/fal se 100 by default 100 by default 443 by default localho st 80 (defaul t) solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 453 -
[this page intentionally left blank]
f:data scripts this section describes various data scripts.
data validation script application and page display names script f contents 456 458 solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 455 - f: data scripts data validation script data validation script the spinternalagentstateandappcomparisonpersite stored procedure on the datamart is used to compare the data related to agent monitoring (agent state and category duration) in the operational database to the data mart.
you may use it if there are any doubts regarding the processing of data from the operational database to the data mart.
to run the script you must provide the start date, finish date and site id. the script returns the results for each of the agent logins on a daily basis, and includes the following: day: the date.
ntlogin: the agent login.
category_or_state: the agent category or state, for example, idle, lock, uncategorized, productive, non-productive, and so on.
source_duration: the duration in the operational database.
last_update_time: the date and time that the data was last updated in the operational database.
agg_duration: the aggregated duration in the data mart.
diff: the difference between the duration in the operational database and the duration in the data mart, if there is any. to run the data validation script: 1. run the script using the following syntax: exec spinternalagentstateandappcomparisonpersite @reportstartday ='2008-01-01' , @reportendday ='2008-01-07', @reportsiteid=1. use the @reportsiteid as it appears in dwh_sites_dim.siteid.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 456 - f: data scripts data validation script 2.
to view the date of the latest population of the data mart : select path_last_update_time from dwh_sites_dim.
3. if any row in the output is later than the date in dwh_sites_dim it may explain the difference, as this indicates that not all records for this agent on this day and for this category were populated.
solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 457 - application and page display names script f: data scripts application and page display names script the nice rti retroactive disp indx assignment stored procedure on the operational database is used to retroactively index application and pages that have display names.
by default the job is disabled.
to run the script, enable the stored procedure and set the following options: default_first_time_from: the date and time to start the indexing from.
end_time_offset_from_now_min: the number of minutes to subtract from the current time.
by default 30 minutes.
the job will stop indexing data from the current time minus this offset, that is, it will not index data from the last x minutes.
this is necessary in order to prevent table locks.
include_like_key_in_join:by default 1.
if set to 1, includes the like condition between wfw_ app_monitoring_event application/page raw name and wfm_app/page_disp_name application/page key.
running_mode: set to 1 for historical mode, or 0 to run periodically (by default).
if you set this to 1, the stored procedure processes all the data from the default_first_time_from: to end_time_offset_from_now_min: minutes prior to the current time.
if you set this to 0, it runs periodically every slide-win_bulk_size_hour.
slide-win_bulk_size_hour: interval in hours to correct application monitoring table.
by default 4. solution guide - nice advanced process automation 7.0 desktop analytics (7.0-a1) - 458 -
hp sitescope software version: 11.31 deployment guide document release date: september 2015 software release date: september 2015 deployment guide legal notices warranty the only warranties for hp products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements accompanying such products and services.
nothing herein should be construed as constituting an additional warranty.
hp shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein.
the information contained herein is subject to change without notice.
restricted rights legend confidential computer software.
valid license from hp required for possession, use or copying.
consistent with far 12.211 and 12.212, commercial computer software, computer software documentation, and technical data for commercial items are licensed to the u.s. government under vendor's standard commercial license.
copyright notice © copyright 2005 - 2015 hewlett-packard development company, l.p. trademark notices adobe® and acrobat® are trademarks of adobe systems incorporated.
intel®, pentium®, and intel® xeon® are trademarks of intel corporation in the u.s. and other countries.
ipod is a trademark of apple computer, inc.
java is a registered trademark of oracle and/or its affiliates.
microsoft®, windows®, windows nt®, and windows® xp are u.s registered trademarks of microsoft corporation.
oracle is a registered trademark of oracle corporation and/or its affiliates.
unix® is a registered trademark of the open group.
documentation updates the title page of this document contains the following identifying information: l software version number, which indicates the software version.
l document release date, which changes each time the document is updated.
l software release date, which indicates the release date of this version of the software.
to check for recent updates or to verify that you are using the most recent edition of a document, go to: https://softwaresupport.hp.com/group/softwaresupport/search- result?keyword=. this site requires an hp passport account.
if you do not have one, click the create an account button on the hp passport sign in page.
support visit the hp software support web site at: https://softwaresupport.hp.com this web site provides contact information and details about the products, services, and support that hp software offers.
hp software support provides customer self-solve capabilities.
it provides a fast and efficient way to access interactive technical support tools needed to manage your business.
as a valued support customer, you can benefit by using the support web site to: l search for knowledge documents of interest l submit and track support cases and enhancement requests l download software patches l manage support contracts l review information about available services l enter into discussions with other software customers l research and register for software training look up hp support contacts l most of the support areas require that you register as an hp passport user and sign in.
many also require a support contract.
to register for an hp passport id, go to https://softwaresupport.hp.com and click register.
to find more information about access levels, go to: https://softwaresupport.hp.com/web/softwaresupport/access-levels hp sitescope (11.31) page 2 of 285 deployment guide hp software integrations, solutions and best practices visit the integrations and solutions catalog at https://softwaresupport.hp.com/group/softwaresupport/search-result/-/facetsearch/document/km01702710 to explore how the products in the hp software catalog work together, exchange information, and solve business needs.
visit the cross portfolio best practices library at https://hpln.hp.com/group/best-practices-hpsw to access a wide variety of best practice documents and materials.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 3 of 285 contents part 1: introduction to sitescope chapter 1: sitescope overview chapter 2: sitescope editions sitescope editions overview feature comparison table monitors not included in community edition community edition trial edition commercial editions premium/ultimate edition system collector edition load testing edition failover edition 11 12 13 13 14 16 17 20 21 22 24 26 27 chapter 3: sitescope licenses sitescope licensing overview importing and upgrading your license instant-on license license edition license capacity type 28 28 29 30 31 33 upgrading the sitescope edition license 35 upgrading the license of a sitescope for load testing installation to premium edition 36 increasing the license capacity 37 37 importing sitescope licenses 39 39 40 downgrade to community license license expiration licensing notes and limitations chapter 4: getting started roadmap chapter 5: deployment methodology and planning an enterprise system monitoring methodology 42 43 43 hp sitescope (11.31) page 4 of 285 deployment guide business system infrastructure assessment sitescope server sizing network location and environment considerations for windows environments considerations for linux environments chapter 6: sizing sitescope sizing sitescope overview sitescope capacity calculator supported monitors and solution templates sizing sitescope on windows platforms sizing sitescope tuning microsoft windows operating system general maintenance recommendations sizing sitescope on linux platforms tuning the operating system tuning the java virtual machine general maintenance recommendations troubleshooting and limitations chapter 7: understanding agentless monitoring sitescope monitoring capabilities overview understanding the agentless monitoring environment sitescope monitoring methods firewalls and sitescope deployment monitor permissions and credentials part 2: before installing sitescope chapter 8: installation overview chapter 9: installation requirements system requirements system hardware requirements certified configurations server system requirements for windows server system requirements for linux 45 46 46 47 47 50 50 50 52 53 53 54 55 55 56 58 58 60 62 62 63 63 65 66 67 68 70 70 71 71 72 72 hp sitescope (11.31) page 5 of 285 deployment guide client system requirements sitescope capacity limitations sitescope support matrices hp business service management integration support matrix hp operations manager (hpom) integration support matrix hp operations agent support matrix hp sitescope for load testing support matrix hp network node manager i (nnmi) support matrix chapter 10: upgrading sitescope before performing the upgrade migrating from 32-bit to 64-bit sitescope upgrading an existing sitescope installation backing up sitescope configuration data importing configuration data upgrading from sitescope 10.x to sitescope 11.13 or 11.24 upgrading sitescope 11.13 or 11.24 to sitescope 11.3x troubleshooting and limitations part 3: installing sitescope chapter 11: installation workflow installation version types installation flow installation prerequisites - linux installing dependencies on an oracle enterprise linux 6.0, 6.1 environment installation prerequisites - centos 6.2 installing sitescope on an hp cloud services instance running on centos 6.2 troubleshooting and limitations chapter 12: installing using the installation wizard installing sitescope using the installation wizard on a machine without x11 server chapter 13: installing on linux using console mode chapter 14: installing sitescope in silent mode about installing sitescope in silent mode running a silent installation 74 77 77 78 78 80 80 81 82 82 85 86 88 89 89 91 94 99 100 100 101 105 106 107 108 110 112 131 132 141 141 142 hp sitescope (11.31) page 6 of 285 deployment guide uninstalling sitescope in silent mode chapter 15: using the sitescope configuration tool running the configuration tool on windows platforms running the configuration tool on linux platforms running the configuration tool using console mode running the configuration tool in silent mode running silent configuration chapter 16: uninstalling sitescope uninstalling sitescope on a windows platform uninstalling sitescope on a linux platform part 4: running sitescope securely chapter 17: hardening the sitescope platform overview setting sitescope user preferences password encryption using transport layer security (tls) to access sitescope smart card authentication common criteria certification fips 140-2 compliancy encrypt data using a custom key recommendations for securing user accounts configuring a warning banner to be displayed on login chapter 18: configuring sitescope to communicate over a secure connection configuring sitescope to require a secure connection configuring smart card authentication configuring sitescope to require client certificate authentication chapter 19: advanced hardening configuration configuring sitescope to verify certificate revocation using firefox when client certification is enabled importing certificate authority certificates into sitescope truststores disabling jmx remote access restoring a backed up configuration 144 146 146 154 160 167 169 170 170 172 176 177 177 178 178 178 178 180 180 180 181 183 184 184 184 185 186 186 186 187 187 188 hp sitescope (11.31) page 7 of 285 deployment guide configuring framing filters in sitescope automatically terminating sessions chapter 20: configuring sitescope to operate in fips 140-2 compliant mode fips 140-2 compliancy overview enabling fips 140-2 compliant mode disabling fips 140-2 compliant mode troubleshooting and limitations chapter 21: configuring sitescope to use a custom key for data encryption key management overview how to configure sitescope to use a custom key for data encryption how to enable or disable fips compliant mode after changing the encryption key how to export and import configuration data when using a custom key for data encryption 188 190 191 191 192 198 199 201 201 202 203 204 chapter 22: configuring sitescope to communicate with bsm over a secure connection 206 configuring sitescope to connect to a bsm server that requires a secure connection 206 configuring sitescope to connect to a bsm server that requires a client certificate 206 configuring bsm to connect to sitescope when sitescope requires a client certificate207 chapter 23: using the hardening tool 208 how to run the hardening tool 209 how to use the hardening tool to configure sitescope to require a secure connection 210 how to use the hardening tool to configure sitescope to verify certificate revocation 212 how to use the hardening tool to import certificate authority certificates into sitescope truststores how to use the hardening tool to configure sitescope to connect to a bsm server that requires a client certificate how to use the hardening tool to enable fips 140-2 compliant mode how to use the hardening tool to enable key management for data encryption how to use the hardening tool to configure sitescope and sitescope public api client certificate authentication how to use the hardening tool to configure jmx remote access how to use the hardening tool to restore a backed up configuration hardening tool limitations/troubleshooting 217 218 219 219 214 215 217 217 chapter 24: configuration of usgcb (fdcc) compliant desktop 223 hp sitescope (11.31) page 8 of 285 deployment guide part 5: post-installation: getting started chapter 25: post-installation administration chapter 26: install microsoft hotfixes chapter 27: getting started with sitescope starting the sitescope service overview starting and stopping the sitescope service on windows platform starting and stopping the sitescope process on linux platforms connecting to sitescope sitescope classic interface troubleshooting and limitations appendixes appendix a: integrating iis with sitescope's tomcat server configuring the apache tomcat server files troubleshooting configuring iis appendix b: integrating sitescope with siteminder understanding integration with siteminder integration requirements the integration process configuring the siteminder policy server configuring sitescope for using siteminder configuring iis configure iis as reverse proxy using application request routing (arr) module prerequisites steps to install the arr module steps to configure iis as reverse proxy siteminder agent installation and configuration prerequisites steps to configure siteminder defining permissions for the different sitescope roles logging on to sitescope notes and guidelines 225 226 229 230 230 230 231 233 233 234 239 240 240 242 243 247 247 248 248 249 251 251 251 252 252 252 255 255 255 261 261 261 hp sitescope (11.31) page 9 of 285 deployment guide appendix c: manually configuring sitescope for using a secure connection preparing sitescope for using tls using a certificate from a certificate authority using a self-signed certificate manually configuring sitescope for tls on tomcat manually configuring sitescope for mutual tls configuration manually configuring sitescope to connect to bsm server with tls deployment manually configuring sitescope to connect to a bsm server that requires a client certificate manually configuring the topology discovery agent in sitescope when bsm server requires a client certificate troubleshooting appendix d: accessing sitescope reports and classic user interface using https about working with certificates in sitescope using a certificate from a certificate authority using a self-signed certificate send documentation feedback 263 263 264 267 268 270 271 272 275 278 279 279 279 282 285 hp sitescope (11.31) page 10 of 285 part 1: introduction to sitescope hp sitescope (11.31) page 11 of 285 chapter 1: sitescope overview hp sitescope is an agentless monitoring solution designed to ensure the availability and performance of distributed it infrastructures—for example, servers, operating systems, network devices, network services, applications, and application components.
this web-based infrastructure monitoring solution is lightweight, highly customizable, and does not require that data collection agents be installed on your production systems.
with sitescope, you gain the real-time information you need to verify infrastructure operations, stay apprised of problems, and solve bottlenecks before they become critical.
sitescope provides different tools, such as templates, the publish template changes wizard, and automatic template deployment that enable you to develop a standardized set of monitor types and configurations into a single structure.
sitescope templates can be speedily deployed across the enterprise and quickly updated to make sure that the monitoring infrastructure is compliant with the standards set in the template.
sitescope also includes alert types that you can use to communicate and record event information in a variety of media.
you can customize alert templates to meet the needs of your organization.
sitescope also acts as a monitoring foundation for other hp offerings such as business service management (bsm), network node manager i (nnmi), hp software-as-a-service, and loadrunner/performance center.
by starting with sitescope and adding other hp solutions such as bsm’s service level management, you can create a solid infrastructure monitoring that enables you to manage your it infrastructure and service levels from a business point of view.
sitescope can also work together with hp operations manager (hpom) products to provide a powerful combination of agentless and agent-based infrastructure management.
serving as an agent of hpom, sitescope targets are automatically added to operations manager service view maps, which enables hpom to seamlessly display sitescope data and monitor status.
for event integration, sitescope alerts and monitor metric status changes are sent directly to hpom.
the combined functionality of agentless and agent-based monitoring provides a powerful and in-depth monitoring solution.
for more details on using hpom products, refer to the hpom documentation.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 12 of 285 chapter 2: sitescope editions this chapter includes: "sitescope editions overview" below "feature comparison table" on the next page "community edition" on page 17 "trial edition" on page 20 "commercial editions" on page 21 "load testing edition" on page 26 "failover edition" on page 27 l l l l l l l sitescope editions overview sitescope is available in various editions which provide different functionalities.
sitescope is installed with a built-in community edition license which provides limited sitescope functionality at no cost, for an unlimited period of time.
in addition, there is free, one-time trial edition which provides full functionality of sitescope during a 30-day period.
you can extend sitescope beyond the features included in the community edition, by upgrading to one of the various commercial editions: premium, ultimate, or system collector.
there is also a free load testing edition that is instantly available upon installing hp sitescope for load testing.
the community, premium, and ultimate editions are available to any user, whereas the system collector and load testing editions are provided with hp operations manager integration and hp load runner/performance center respectively.
you can add sitescope functionality and capacity by importing additional licenses.
this provides an efficient and flexible way to scale sitescope to meet the needs of your organization and the requirements of your infrastructure.
for details on purchasing a license or additional license capacity, contact your hp sales representative or use the “contact us” link in the hp sitescope product page.
for more information about licensing, see "sitescope licenses" on page 28.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 13 of 285 deployment guide chapter 2: sitescope editions feature comparison table the table below shows the features that are available in the various sitescope editions.
feature license duration license entitlement model node locked1 support model user accounts data retention alerts reporting multi-view, event console analytics monitor types sitescope editions community trial instant-on (perpetual) 30 days 25 osis 25 urls (fixed capacity) 25 osis 25 urls 10 transactions (fixed capacity) premium/ ultimate term or perpetual osis, urls, transactions (quantity determined by user) available with hp products only system collector load testing term or perpetual instant-on (perpetual) osis (quantity determined by user) 25 osis 25 urls (fixed capacity)
x x a a x sitescope communities web/phone web/phone web/phone email 1 unlimited unlimited unlimited unlimited 30 days 2 30 days 2 unlimited unlimited unlimited a a a a a a a a a a a a all monitors all monitors all monitors a a a a all monitors except web script and integration monitors email, event console only quick reports only a a all monitors except those listed in "monitors not included in community edition" on page 16.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 14 of 285 deployment guide chapter 2: sitescope editions sitescope editions feature solution templates community trial x all solution templates premium/ ultimate all solution templates a except for deploying via csv or xml file x
x x x a a a a a a a a x x (possible to update via patches) user-
defined templates apis integrations high availability (failover) updates and patches supported platforms (installation) multi-lingual ui support available with hp products only system collector load testing all solution templates a a a a a hp quality center, hp quicktest professional, hp service manager, hp vertica, operating system host (aix, linux, microsoft windows, solaris) a a generic data integration x a various windows and linux 64-bit platforms (see "system requirements" on page 70 for the list of supported versions).
windows platforms only 10 languages (see the list of supported languages in the internationalization section of the using sitescope guide).
1
some license editions are node locked to avoid license abuse.
this means that the license is valid on a specific machine only.
2 configuring the number of daily logs in the log preferences will not have any effect on the number of daily logs retained.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 15 of 285 deployment guide chapter 2: sitescope editions monitors not included in community edition l active directory replication monitor l amazon web services monitor l com+ server monitor l hp vertica jdbc monitor integration monitors l l microsoft exchange monitors - microsoft exchange 2007 message traffic, microsoft exchange, microsoft exchange base (deprecated monitors: microsoft exchange 5.5/2000/2003 message traffic, microsoft exchange 2003 mailbox, microsoft exchange 2003 public folder) l microsoft lync monitors - archiving server, a/v conferencing server, director server, edge server, front end server, mediation server, monitoring and cdr server, registrar server l oracle database solution templates - oracle 10g application server, oracle 9i application server, oracle database monitor l sap monitors - sap ccms, sap ccms alert, sap java web application server, sap mai alert, sap performance, sap work processes l siebel monitors - siebel application server, siebel log, siebel web server l vmware datastore monitor l vmware host monitors - vmware host cpu, vmware host memory, vmware host network, vmware host state, vmware host storage l weblogic application server monitor l web script monitor l websphere monitors - websphare application server, websphare mq status, websphere performance servlet monitor hp sitescope (11.31) page 16 of 285 deployment guide chapter 2: sitescope editions community edition the community edition provides limited sitescope functionality for free, an unlimited period of time.
this edition is automatically activated after performing a regular sitescope installation.
note: the community edition will not be released with every sitescope minor or minor-minor version release.
for details on version types, see "installation version types" on page 100.
the table below shows some of the main differences between the community edition and the sitescope commercial editions.
feature license duration capacity description community edition: this edition never expires.
it can be overridden by any other edition after importing the license file, and it is re-activated when no other commercial edition exists or is valid.
commercial edition: term or perpetual.
for details on what happens when a commercial edition license expire, see "license expiration" on page 39.
community edition: this edition has a fixed capacity for monitoring up to 25 os instances and 25 urls (the capacity cannot be extended).
if this capacity is exceeded during a monitor run, all monitors are suspended and an error is displayed in the log.
for example, osi capacity consumption for dynamic vmware monitors can change during the monitor run according to the number of discovered vms.
commercial edition: user can purchase os instances, urls, and transaction license capacity according to their monitoring requirements.
user management community edition: one user account (administrator).
commercial edition: unlimited users and user roles and support for ldap integration for authentication and authorization.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 17 of 285 deployment guide chapter 2: sitescope editions feature description solution templates & monitors data retention community edition: l solution templates and their dependent monitors are not available.
l the monitors listed in "monitors not included in community edition" on page 16 are not available.
l all other monitors are available.
commercial edition: all monitors and solution templates are available.
community edition: l historical monitor data is retained for 30 days only (but log files are not deleted).
configuring the number of daily logs in the log preferences will not have any effect on the number of daily logs retained.
l quick reports display data for the past 30 days.
commercial edition unlimited alert actions community edition: only email and event console alert actions are enabled.
commercial edition: all alert actions are enabled.
apis community edition: not supported.
commercial edition: supported integrations community edition: not supported.
commercial edition: supported high availability (failover) community edition: not supported.
if you attempt to connect a sitescope failover machine to sitescope using the community edition, an exception is returned from the primary sitescope to the failover sitescope and displayed in the user interface.
a corresponding message is also written to the error.log of the primary sitescope.
commercial edition: supported template deployment community edition: csv template deployment (via the user interface) and automatic template deployment is not supported.
commercial edition: fully supported hp sitescope (11.31) page 18 of 285 deployment guide chapter 2: sitescope editions feature upgrade description you can upgrade the community edition to the premium, ultimate, or system collector edition.
for details, see "importing and upgrading your license" on page 33.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 19 of 285 deployment guide chapter 2: sitescope editions trial edition below are the specifications for using the sitescope trial edition.
feature description edition type a free, one-time trial license.
edition duration capacity 30 days when activated from community edition, the trial license includes a capacity for monitoring up to 25 os instances, 25 urls, and 10 transactions.
note: the capacity for a trial license is fixed, and cannot be extended or renewed.
functionality full sitescope functionality.
for details, see "feature comparison table" on page 14.
node locked no activation available when using the community edition, by selecting preferences > general preferences > licenses > trial edition.
it can be started only once; thereafter the button is permanently disabled.
deactivate select preferences > general preferences > licenses.
in the installed licenses table, select the trial row, and click remove license.
upgrade expiration this returns sitescope to the previous edition (or community edition, if no other editions were purchased).
you can override the trial edition with the premium, ultimate, or system collector edition.
for details, see "importing and upgrading your license" on page 33.
the license automatically expires after 30 days, and sitescope returns to the community edition.
functionality is reduced according to the functionality of the currently active license edition.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 20 of 285 deployment guide chapter 2: sitescope editions commercial editions sitescope includes the following commercial editions.
the tables that follow list the specifications for using these editions.
for the list of features available in each edition, see "feature comparison table" on page 14.
"premium/ultimate edition" on the next page "system collector edition" on page 24 l l hp sitescope (11.31) page 21 of 285 deployment guide chapter 2: sitescope editions premium/ultimate edition feature description edition type commercial edition.
edition duration capacity term or perpetual purchase the osi, url, and transaction capacity that you require (there is no minimum capacity).
for license purchase inquiries (or if you require additional capacity), contact your hp sales representative or use the “contact us” link in the hp sitescope product page.
functionality full sitescope functionality node locked yes (the license is valid on a specific machine only) activation deactivate upgrade expiration after purchasing a license, select preferences > general preferences > licenses, and enter the path to your sitescope license file in the license file box, or click the select button, and select the license file.
select preferences > general preferences > licenses.
in the installed licenses table, select the premium/ultimate row, and click remove license.
when deleting a premium or ultimate edition license, you should also delete all premium or ultimate edition capacity type rows (osi, url, and transaction).
this returns sitescope to the previous edition, or community edition, if no other editions were purchased.
you can override the premium edition with the ultimate or system collector edition.
for details, see "importing and upgrading your license" on page 33.
a license expires when the time-period for all capacity types in the active edition comes to an end.
sitescope sends a notification message to the user 7 days before the license is due to expire, and displays this information in the licenses panel.
upon expiration, sitescope automatically downgrades the edition (and functionality) to the previous commercial edition, if any, in the hierarchy.
otherwise, the community edition becomes the active edition.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 22 of 285 deployment guide chapter 2: sitescope editions feature description capacity downgrade when the osi, url, or transaction capacity is exceeded, sitescope: 1. opens a dialog box with a warning message.
2. sends a daily message (for up to 7 days) warning the user to remove the extra monitors, or to increase the license capacity.
after the capacity has been exceeded for 7 days, sitescope suspends all monitors.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 23 of 285 deployment guide chapter 2: sitescope editions system collector edition feature description edition type a version of sitescope that is provided with hp operations manager integration.
edition duration term or perpetual capacity purchase the osi capacity that you require (there is no minimum capacity).
for license purchase inquiries (or if you require additional capacity), contact your hp sales representative or use the “contact us” link in the hp sitescope product page.
functionality full sitescope functionality.
node locked yes (the license is valid on a specific machine only) activation deactivate upgrade expiration after purchasing a license, select preferences > general preferences > licenses, and enter the path to your sitescope license file in the license file box, or click the select button, and select the license file.
select preferences > general preferences > licenses.
in the installed licenses table, select the system collector row, and click remove license.
when deleting a system collector edition license, you should also delete all system collector edition capacity type rows (osi, url, and transaction).
this returns sitescope to the previous edition, or community edition, if no other editions were purchased.
while you cannot override a system collector license, you can import a premium, or ultimate edition license to increase your url and transaction capacity.
for details, see "importing and upgrading your license" on page 33.
a license expires when the time-period for the os instance capacity in the active edition comes to an end.
sitescope sends a notification message to the user 7 days before the license is due to expire, and displays this information in the licenses panel.
upon expiration, sitescope automatically downgrades the edition (and functionality) to the previous commercial edition, if any, in the hierarchy.
otherwise, the community edition becomes the active edition.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 24 of 285 deployment guide chapter 2: sitescope editions feature description capacity downgrade when the osi, url, or transaction capacity is exceeded, sitescope: 1. opens a dialog box with a warning message.
2. sends a daily message (for up to 7 days) warning the user to remove the extra monitors, or to increase the license capacity.
after the capacity has been exceeded for 7 days, sitescope suspends all monitors.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 25 of 285 deployment guide chapter 2: sitescope editions load testing edition below are the specifications for using the sitescope load testing edition in hp loadrunner or hp performance center.
feature description edition type a freely available version of sitescope that is provided with hp loadrunner and hp performance center.
edition duration perpetual capacity 25 os instances, 25 urls note: this license has a fixed capacity that cannot be extended.
functionality see "feature comparison table" on page 14.
node locked no activation automatically activated after installing sitescope for load testing .
deactivate a user cannot remove the load testing edition license.
upgrade you can upgrade load testing edition to premium, ultimate, or system collector edition.
for details, see "importing and upgrading your license" on page 33.
note: upgrading a load testing edition requires additional configuration as described in "upgrading the license of a sitescope for load testing installation to premium edition" on page 36.
expiration not applicable (the license is perpetual) capacity downgrade when the license capacity is exceeded, sitescope: 1. opens a dialog box with a warning message.
2. sends a daily message (for up to 7 days) warning the user to remove the extra monitors.
after the capacity has been exceeded for 7 days, sitescope suspends all monitors.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 26 of 285 deployment guide chapter 2: sitescope editions failover edition below are the specifications for using the sitescope failover edition.
feature description edition type sitescope failover provides redundancy and automatic backup protection if a sitescope server experiences availability issues.
the failover edition license is provided with the premium, ultimate, and system collector editions at no additional cost.
edition duration sitescope failover is dependent on there being a primary sitescope with a premium, ultimate, or system collector edition license.
functionality full sitescope functionality activation after installing sitescope failover, you need to import the failover license.
it only starts to work after the failover server is synchronization with a primary sitescope server (with premium, ultimate, or system collector edition license).
deactivate select preferences > general preferences > licenses.
in the installed licenses table, select the failover row, and click remove license.
when deleting a failover edition license, you should also delete all failover edition capacity type rows (osi, url, and transaction).
expiration / capacity downgrade sitescope failover is dependent on there being a primary sitescope with a premium, ultimate, or system collector edition license.
upon expiration of the primary sitescope edition license, the failover license also expires and there is no active edition on the sitescope failover machine.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 27 of 285 chapter 3: sitescope licenses this chapter includes: "sitescope licensing overview" below "importing and upgrading your license" on page 33 "license expiration" on page 39 "licensing notes and limitations" on page 40 l l l
l sitescope licensing overview sitescope licensing controls the number of monitors that can be created simultaneously and the types of monitors that can be used.
purchase the license type and capacity according to the needs of your monitoring environment.
the number of sitescope monitors that you can create is based on two factors: l the monitoring capacity you have purchased for the specific license capacity types (os instance, url, transaction).
l types of sitescope monitors you want to use.
purchasing a sitescope license and registering your copy of sitescope gives you important rights and privileges.
registered users can access technical support and information on all hp products and are eligible for free updates and upgrades.
you are also given access to the hp software support site.
you can use this access to search for technical information in the self-solve knowledge search as well as downloading updates to the sitescope documentation.
new licensing model for monitors the licensing entitlement model used by sitescope changed from a point-based model to a capacity- type model that is based on the types of objects sitescope is monitoring.
there are three types of monitored objects: operating system instances (osi), transactions for monitors that run vugen scripts, and urls.
the license capacity types that are available are dependent on the installation type and on the sitescope edition you choose.
this means that you can flexibly scale a sitescope deployment to meet the needs of your organization and the requirements of your infrastructure.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 28 of 285 deployment guide chapter 3: sitescope licenses for details of the licensing mechanism, see: "instant-on license" below "license edition " on the next page "license capacity type" on page 31 l l l new licensing model for solution templates solution templates no longer require a separate license for each solution.
instead, all solution templates are automatically available with the premium, ultimate, and system collector edition license.
license consumption for a solution template is calculated according to the monitors deployed from the solution template.
instant-on license to use sitescope, you must have a valid license.
a license is automatically activated (instantly-on) according to the setup type you selected.
l hp sitescope.
the community edition license is instantly available upon a regular sitescope installation.
this free edition, provides limited sitescope functionality for an unlimited period of time.
you can upgrade your sitescope edition at any time to expand the monitoring capacity of your initial deployment and to enjoy all the features offered by sitescope.
for the list of sitescope editions that are available, see "license edition " on the next page.
l hp sitescope for load testing.
the load testing edition license is instantly available upon hp sitescope for load testing installation.
this setup type is used with an hp loadrunner or hp performance center installation only.
note: for a sitescope failover installation, the failover edition license is provided with the premium, ultimate, and system collector editions at no additional cost.
after installing sitescope failover, you need to import the failover license file.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 29 of 285 deployment guide chapter 3: sitescope licenses license edition you can upgrade your initial sitescope deployment by selecting the sitescope edition and capacity model (see "license capacity type" on the next page) according to the type of environment you want to monitor.
you can select from the following editions: license edition description trial edition sitescope provides a free, one-time trial license that gives you full sitescope functionality during a 30-day period.
for details, see "trial edition" on page 20. premium/ultimate edition provides full sitescope functionality, including integrations, sitescope apis, sitescope failover, and the use of enterprise monitors and templates.
system collector load testing premium and ultimate editions have the same functionality, and differ only in the integrations with which they are bundled.
for details, contact your hp sales representative.
for more details, see "premium/ultimate edition" on page 22.
a version of sitescope provided with hp operations manager integration that enables sitescope monitors to be used on hpom applications.
for details, see "system collector edition" on page 24.
a version of sitescope provided with hp loadrunner and hp performance center that enables users to define and use sitescope monitors on a loadrunner or performance center application.
for details, see "load testing edition" on page 26.
for a comparison of the features available in each edition, see "feature comparison table" on page 14.
for license purchase inquiries (or if you require additional capacity), contact your hp sales representative or use the “contact us” link in the hp sitescope product page.
if you own a license and require a license key file, use the hp licensing for software portal.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 30 of 285 deployment guide chapter 3: sitescope licenses license capacity type the table below contains an explanation of the different capacity types, the rules used to calculate license usage, and the monitors supported by each license capacity type: hp sitescope (11.31) page 31 of 285 deployment guide chapter 3: sitescope licenses capacity type osi license description monitors supported: all monitors except url, url content, url list, url sequence, web script, web service, link check, xml metrics, and free monitors (composite, formula composite, amazon web services, e-business transaction, and integration monitors).
license consumption: generally, one osi license instance is consumed for every monitored remote server, regardless of the number of monitors configured for that remote server.
for example, if you are using a cpu, a disk space, and a memory monitor on the same operating system or host, a single os instance is deducted from the license.
exceptions: l custom monitor, snmp trap, and microsoft windows dial-up consume one os instance per 15 monitors.
l hp vertica jdbc monitor consumes one os instance per monitored server and one os instance per monitored node.
l solaris zones monitor consumes one os instance per monitored server property and one os instance per monitored zone.
l vmware datastore monitor consumes one os instance per datastore.
l vmware host monitors consume one os instance license per monitored host and one os instance license for each monitored virtual machine.
note that vmware best practices recommend that you set the object name (in vsphere) of a vm guest to be the same as the server name (or machine name) of the guest itself.
where you set the names this way, sitescope uses only one os instance for all monitors of the same server.
where the vsphere object name is different from the guest server name, sitescope uses one os instance for all vmware monitors with the guest server name, and one os instance for all monitors with the vsphere object name.
note: os instances are not aggregated between different editions because the cost of an os instance license differs for each edition type.
however, os instances are aggregated between os licenses of the same edition (for example if you have multiple premium edition licenses each containing os instances).
hp sitescope (11.31) page 32 of 285 deployment guide chapter 3: sitescope licenses capacity type url license transaction license description monitors supported: url, url content, url list, url sequence, web service, link check, xml metrics.
license consumption: l each monitored url or url step consumes one url license instance.
l url licenses are aggregated between editions, except community, trial, and load testing edition which have their own url license.
monitors supported: web script monitors that use vugen script transactions.
license consumption: l one transaction license instance is consumed per vugen script transaction.
note that the "/total/status" counter also consumes one transaction license instance when it is selected in the web script monitor.
l transaction licenses are aggregated between edition, except for community and load testing editions which do not support monitoring transactions.
importing and upgrading your license when you install sitescope, it includes a free community edition license.
to extend sitescope beyond the features included in the community edition, you must purchase the sitescope edition with the capacity types (osi, url, and transaction) you require, and then import the license file key into sitescope.
you can import a sitescope license: l during installation using the sitescope configuration wizard, or l post-installation using the general preferences page (see "importing sitescope licenses" on page 37), an api, or the sitescope configuration tool (see "using the sitescope configuration tool" on page 146).
when you import an edition license that is higher in the hierarchy, it upgrades the functionality of the active edition according to the edition of the imported license.
for details on upgrading a license, see "upgrading the sitescope edition license" on page 35.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 33 of 285 deployment guide chapter 3: sitescope licenses you can also increase license capacity for the premium, ultimate, and system collector editions.
for details, see "increasing the license capacity" on page 37.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 34 of 285 deployment guide chapter 3: sitescope licenses upgrading the sitescope edition license you can upgrade your existing license edition at any time by purchasing a license with a higher edition.
upgrading from sitescope community to sitescope premium, or ultimate edition enables you to benefit from the additional functionality available in sitescope.
for a comparison of features available in the sitescope community edition compared with other editions of sitescope, see "feature comparison table" on page 14.
you can upgrade your edition license according to the following hierarchy: edition upgrade available capacity increase available installation flavor edition hierarchy premium ultimate system collector transaction/ url osi sitescope community a trial a system collector (bundle) premium ultimate (bundle) sitescope for load testing1 sitescope failover load testing a premium failover a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 1 upgrading the license of a sitescope for load testing installation to premium edition requires additional configuration as described in "upgrading the license of a sitescope for load testing installation to premium edition" on the next page.
to upgrade the edition license: hp sitescope (11.31) page 35 of 285 deployment guide chapter 3: sitescope licenses 1.
purchase the sitescope edition you require.
for license purchase inquiries (or if you require additional capacity), contact your hp sales representative or use the “contact us” link in the hp sitescope product page.
if you own a license and require a license key file, use the hp licensing for software portal.
2. import the license file.
for details, see "importing sitescope licenses" on the next page.
note: after upgrading to sitescope 11.30, it might take a short period of time before the licensing panel is updated with the current licenses.
upgrading the license of a sitescope for load testing installation to premium edition note: when using a sitescope for load testing installation, the integration with bsm is not supported.
when upgrading the license of a sitescope for load testing installation to premium edition, you must perform the following changes to get the full functionality of premium edition: 1. in sitescope, select preferences > infrastructure preferences > custom settings, and change the values of the following properties to: n disablerepeatedschedules=false n disablereports=false n multiviewdashboardenabled=true note: alternatively, you can remove the _disablerepeatedschedules=true, _ disablereports=true, _multiviewdashboardenabled=false properties from the <sitescope root directory>\groups\master.config file, and then restart sitescope.
2. restart sitescope.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 36 of 285 deployment guide chapter 3: sitescope licenses increasing the license capacity the number of sitescope monitors that you can create is based on two factors: l the monitoring capacity you have purchased for the specific license capacity type (os instance, url, transaction).
l types of sitescope monitors you want to use.
you can increase your license capacity for the premium, ultimate and system collector editions according to the needs of your monitoring environment.
trial, community, and load testing editions have a fix capacity which cannot be increased.
note: when purchasing and importing additional capacity: l the osi capacity type is only for the current edition.
the license capacity is not aggregated with osi capacity from previous editions.
l the url capacity type is aggregated with the url capacity from previous editions when imported to the current premium, ultimate, or system collector edition.
l the transaction capacity type is aggregated with the transaction capacity from previous editions when imported to the current premium, ultimate, or system collector edition.
to increase license capacity: 1. purchase the os instance, url, and transaction capacity you require.
for license purchase inquiries (or if you require additional capacity), contact your hp sales representative or use the “contact us” link in the hp sitescope product page.
2. import the license file.
for details, see "importing sitescope licenses" below.
importing sitescope licenses when you receive your license file from hp, import the license key into sitescope using the sitescope user interface.
to import a license into sitescope: 1. from a web browser, open the sitescope instance you want to modify.
the sitescope service or process must be running.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 37 of 285 deployment guide chapter 3: sitescope licenses 2.
select preferences > general preferences, and expand the licenses panel.
3. enter the path to your sitescope license file in the license file box, or click the select button, and select the license file.
4. click import.
after the license has been successfully imported, information about the imported license is displayed in the installed licenses table.
this includes the license edition, capacity type and details (capacity available, used, and remaining), expiration date, and the license status.
note: after upgrading to sitescope 11.30, it might take a short period of time before the licensing panel is updated with the current licenses.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 38 of 285 deployment guide chapter 3: sitescope licenses license expiration edition license expiration for time-based licenses, sitescope send a warning message to users 7 days before the license is due to expire.
if an edition license expires, the license is automatic downgraded to the previous valid license in the edition hierarchy (see "upgrading the sitescope edition license" on page 35).
otherwise, the community edition becomes active.
this is also the case where a user removes a license.
sitescope functionality is immediately reduced according to the features that are available within the active edition definition.
note: a user cannot remove the community or load testing edition license from the installed licenses table in preferences > general preferences > licenses.
capacity license expires when the capacity of an osi, url, or transaction license is exceeded, sitescope: 1. opens a dialog box displaying a warning message.
2. sends a message to the user that the license capacity has been exceeded.
sitescope sends a daily notification for a period of up to 7 days.
if the user has not removed the extra monitors or increased the license capacity within this time, sitescope suspends all monitors—even for monitor types for which the capacity was not exceeded.
while monitors are suspended, you are still able to remove monitors from sitescope.
downgrade to community license when a commercial license expires and no other commercial edition exists or is valid, the community edition license automatically becomes the activate license.
any functionality not supported in the community edition is immediately disabled.
the table below shows how a license downgrade impacts functionality: hp sitescope (11.31) page 39 of 285 deployment guide chapter 3: sitescope licenses feature description monitors if the community edition license capacity is exceeded, all monitors are suspended, and a message is displayed in the user interface.
any created monitors not allowed in community edition stop running and are disabled (for example, enterprise monitors and amazon web services monitor).
users lose the ability to log in with other user accounts (regular or ldap) or to edit other user accounts.
this does not apply to the sitescope administrator account.
while all daily logs will be kept on the file system, users can see report and analytics data for the last 30 days only.
alert actions not allowed in community edition are stopped and disabled (only email and event console alert actions are allowed).
scheduled reports are not sent, and only quick reports can be activated from the user interface.
user accounts data retention alerts reports apis all public and private sitescope apis are blocked.
integrations all integrations are stopped and disabled.
sitescope failover sitescope failover gets an error message and stops synchronizing data from the primary sitescope.
licensing notes and limitations community edition the community edition will not be released with every sitescope minor or minor-minor version release.
for details on version types, see "installation version types" on page 100.
sitescope integrated with bsm l if sitescope is configured to send data to bsm and the sitescope license expires, sitescope stops sending all data (including topology) to bsm.
when you renew the sitescope license, you must clear the disable all logging to business service management check box in preferences > integration preferences > bsm integration > bsm integration main settings to enable logging and data flow to bsm, since sitescope automatically disables logging to bsm on license expiration.
l if you delete a monitor from sitescope after your sitescope premium, ultimate, or system collector edition license expires (and therefore, the integration with bsm is disabled), the monitor is hp sitescope (11.31) page 40 of 285 deployment guide chapter 3: sitescope licenses not removed from bsm.
you need to manually remove the monitor from the sitescope topology upgrade compliancy view in bsm in rtsm administration > it universe manager.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 41 of 285 chapter 4: getting started roadmap this section provides a basic step-by-step roadmap for getting up and running with sitescope.
1. register your copy of sitescope.
register your copy of sitescope to gain access to technical support and information on all hp products.
you are also eligible for updates and upgrades.
you can register your copy of sitescope on the hp software support site.
2. read about where to get help.
learn about the sources of assistance, including hp services and hp software support, as well as the sitescope help.
3. plan your sitescope deployment.
create a complete deployment plan prior to installing sitescope software.
use "deployment methodology and planning" on page 43 to assist you.
for in-depth deployment planning best practices, consult your hp representative.
4. install sitescope.
see "installation overview" on page 68 for a basic understanding of the steps involved in deploying the sitescope application.
for information on deploying sitescope securely, see "hardening the sitescope platform" on page 177.
5. log on to sitescope and initiate system administration.
log into the sitescope web interface using a web browser.
use the checklist in "post-installation administration" on page 226 to guide you through basic platform and monitor administration tasks to prepare sitescope for operational deployment.
6. roll out sitescope to business and systems users.
after the sitescope system is up and running with defined users and incoming monitor data, begin the process of educating business and systems users on how to access and use sitescope monitors, reporting and alerting functionality.
for complete details on using and administering sitescope, see the sitescope help.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 42 of 285 chapter 5: deployment methodology and planning this chapter includes: "an enterprise system monitoring methodology" below "business system infrastructure assessment" on page 45 "sitescope server sizing" on page 46 "network location and environment" on page 46 "considerations for windows environments" on page 47 "considerations for linux environments" on page 47 l l l l l l an enterprise system monitoring methodology deploying sitescope is a process that requires resource planning, system architecture design, and a well-planned deployment strategy.
this chapter outlines the methodology and considerations you need to take for successful deployment and use of sitescope.
note: use the information below to assist you in your preparations before beginning the installation.
for in-depth deployment planning best practices, consult your hp professional services representative.
having a consistent methodology is essential for effective system monitoring.
however, it is not always obvious how to approach, develop, and deploy an enterprise monitoring solution.
the solution needs to consider the role of the it infrastructure and how it contributes to the success of the organization.
system monitoring is a tool you use to ensure the availability and function of services used by the organization to meet its key objectives.
you can use the following as a guide to plan your system monitoring.
what to monitor effective enterprise system management uses a multi-tiered monitoring approach.
sitescope gives you the tools to implement this.
at one level, you want to monitor individual hardware elements in the infrastructure to see that they are running and available.
you want to add to this monitoring of key services and processes on these systems.
this includes low level operating system processes as well as processes indicating the health and performance of key applications.
on top of this, you want to hp sitescope (11.31) page 43 of 285 deployment guide chapter 5: deployment methodology and planning create transactional monitoring of business processes to see that key applications and services are available and function as expected.
what threshold level represents an event the availability and performance of information systems is critical to enterprise business success.
the thresholds that you set for monitors is determined by the nature of the system or business process you are monitoring.
how often the system should be checked how often you have a system checked can be as important as the event threshold you set.
the availability of mission critical information systems should be checked regularly during the periods that there are to be accessible.
in many cases, systems need to be available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
you control how often sitescope checks a system with the frequency setting for each monitor.
too much time between checks may delay detection of problems.
too frequent checking may load an already busy system unnecessarily.
what action to take when an event is detected as a monitoring application, sitescope provides you with the tools to detect problems.
you use sitescope alerts to send timely notification when an event threshold has been triggered.
an email notification is a commonly used alert action.
sitescope includes other alert types that can integrate with other systems.
you can develop an alert escalation scheme by defining multiple alert definitions with different alert trigger criteria.
you use the when settings for alerts to customize the relation between detected events and alert actions.
another event action may be to disable monitoring and alerting for systems that are dependent on a system that has become unavailable.
sitescope group and monitor dependency options can be used to avoid cascading series of alerts.
what automated response can be performed when problems are detected, an automated response to resolve the problem is ideal.
while this is not possible for all systems, the sitescope script alert type does provide a flexible and powerful tool for automating corrective actions for a variety of situations.
you should consider what problems that may arise in your environment could be addressed with an automated response.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 44 of 285 deployment guide chapter 5: deployment methodology and planning business system infrastructure assessment 1.
gather technical and business requirements before making architectural and deployment decisions.
actions for this stage include: n develop a list of all business applications to be monitored.
this should consider end-to-end services such as order processing, account access functions, data queries, updates and reporting.
n develop a list of servers that support the business applications.
this must include servers supporting front-end web interfaces, back-end databases, and applications servers.
n develop a list of network devices supporting the business applications.
this includes network appliances and authentication services.
n identify heartbeat elements to be monitored.
heartbeat elements are services that act as foundational indicators of the availability of a particular business system or resource.
n outline templates of monitors that represent the resources to be monitored for each system.
2. identify stakeholders and key deliverables for the business system monitoring activity.
deliverables include: n what reports should be generated.
n what alert actions should be taken when events are detected.
n to whom should alerts be sent.
n what users require access to view and manage sitescope.
n what sitescope elements need to be accessible to which stakeholders.
n what are the thresholds for any service level agreements (if applicable).
3. understand the constraints within which the system monitoring function must operate.
this includes restrictions on the protocols that can be used, user authentication requirements, access to systems with business sensitive data, and network traffic restrictions.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 45 of 285 deployment guide chapter 5: deployment methodology and planning sitescope server sizing the foundation of successful monitoring deployment is proper sizing of the server where sitescope is to run.
server sizing is determined by a number of factors including: l the number of monitor instances to be run on the sitescope installation.
l the average run frequency for the monitors.
l the types of protocols and applications to be monitored.
l how much monitor data need to be retained on the server for reporting.
knowing the number of servers in the environment, their respective operating systems, and the application to be monitored is the starting point for estimating the number of monitors that may be needed.
see "sizing sitescope on windows platforms" on page 53 or "sizing sitescope on linux platforms" on page 55 for a table of server sizing recommendations based on estimations of the number of monitors to be run.
network location and environment the majority of sitescope monitoring is performed by emulating web or network clients that make requests of servers and applications in the network environment.
for this reason, sitescope must be able to access servers, systems, and applications throughout the network.
this helps determine where sitescope should be installed.
the methods used by sitescope for monitoring systems, servers, and applications can be divided into two categories: l standards-based network protocols.
this includes http, https, smtp, ftp, and snmp.
l platform-specific network services and commands.
this includes netbios, telnet, rlogin, and secure shell (ssh).
infrastructure monitoring relies on platform-specific services.
as an agentless solution, monitoring requires that sitescope log on and authenticate frequently to many servers in the infrastructure.
for performance and security reasons, it is best to deploy sitescope within the same domain and as close to the system elements to be monitored as possible.
it is also best to have sitescope in the same hp sitescope (11.31) page 46 of 285 deployment guide chapter 5: deployment methodology and planning subnet as the applicable network authentication service (for example active directory, nis, or ldap).
the sitescope interface can be accessed and managed remotely as needed using http or https.
note: try to avoid deploying sitescope in a location where a significant amount of the monitoring activity requires communication across a wide area network (wan).
tip: for security reasons, it is recommended not to use sitescope to monitor servers through a firewall because of the different protocols and ports required for server availability monitoring.
sitescope licensing is not server-based and supports having separate sitescope installations for both sides of a firewall.
two or more separate sitescope installations can be accessed simultaneously from a single workstation using http or https.
considerations for windows environments sitescope must be installed using an account with administrator privileges.
it is also recommended that the sitescope service be run with a user account that has administrator privileges.
a local system account can be used, but this affects the configuration of connection profiles to remote windows servers.
also, sitescope uses the windows performance registry on remote machines to monitor server resources and availability.
to enable this monitoring capability, the remote registry service for the remote machines must be activated.
considerations for linux environments sitescope must be installed on a linux environment by the root user.
after sitescope has been installed, you can create a non-root user account with permissions to run sitescope (unless the sitescope web server is run on a privileged port, in which case it should be run by the root user).
for details on configuring a non-root user with permissions to run sitescope, see "configuring a non-root user account with permissions to run sitescope" on the next page.
the following is additional information relating to the setup of agentless monitoring of remote unix servers with sitescope: l remote login account shells.
sitescope as an application can run successfully under most popular unix shells.
when sitescope communicates with a remote unix server it prefers hp sitescope (11.31) page 47 of 285 deployment guide chapter 5: deployment methodology and planning communicating with either bourne shell (sh) or tsch shell.
the relevant login account on each remote unix server should, therefore, have its shell set to use one of these shells.
note: set a shell profile only for the login accounts used by sitescope to communicate with the remote machine.
other applications and accounts on the remote machine can use their currently defined shells.
l account permissions.
it may be necessary to resolve command permissions settings for monitoring remote unix servers.
most of the commands that sitescope runs to get server information from a remote unix server are located in the /usr/bin directories on the remote server.
some commands, however, such as the command to get memory information, are located in /usr/sbin.
the difference between these two locations is that /usr/sbin commands are usually reserved for the root user or other highly privileged users.
note: although sitescope requires highly privileged account permissions, for security reasons, it is recommended not to run sitescope using the root account or to configure it to use root login accounts on remote servers.
if you have problems with permissions, you need to either have sitescope log on as a different user that has permissions to run the command, or have the permissions changed for the user account that sitescope is using.
configuring a non-root user account with permissions to run sitescope sitescope must be installed on linux from a root user account.
after sitescope has been installed, you can create a non-root user account with permissions to run sitescope.
note: while sitescope requires highly privileged account permissions to enable the full range of server monitoring, it is recommended not to run sitescope from the root account and not to configure sitescope to use the root account to access remote servers.
to create a non-root user account with permissions to use sitescope: 1. add a new user: useradd newuser 2.
change permissions for the sitescope installation folder: chmod 755 /opt/hp/sitescope/ -r hp sitescope (11.31) page 48 of 285 deployment guide chapter 5: deployment methodology and planning 3.
change ownership for the sitescope installation folder: chown newuser /opt/hp/sitescope/ - r 4. login as the new user: su newuser 5.
go to the installation folder: cd /opt/
hp/sitescope 6.
run sitescope: ./start
7. update the /etc/init.d/sitescope file with the command to run as a non-root user.
for example, add “su sitescope –c” in front of the start/stop command.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 49 of 285 chapter 6: sizing sitescope this chapter includes: "sizing sitescope overview" below "sitescope capacity calculator" below "sizing sitescope on windows platforms" on page 53 "sizing sitescope on linux platforms" on page 55 "troubleshooting and limitations" on page 60 l l l l l sizing sitescope overview while the default sitescope configuration permits running thousands of monitors, sizing the server where sitescope is installed may be necessary to achieve optimum performance.
since each configuration is different, you should use the sitescope capacity calculator to verify if your configuration requires sizing.
proper sizing of the server where sitescope is to run is the foundation of successful monitoring deployment.
to ensure optimal sizing, hp strongly recommends the following sitescope server environment: l sitescope runs as a stand-alone server.
for best results, sitescope should be the only program running on a server.
bsm, bmc, hp loadrunner, databases, web servers, and so forth, should not be on the sitescope server.
l only one instance of sitescope exists and it runs on a single server.
running multiple instances of sitescope on a single server can cause severe resource problems.
this recommendation includes instances of sitescope used for system health.
l sitescope failover needs to be sized just like the primary sitescope server.
sitescope capacity calculator sitescope includes a tool that helps you predict system behavior and perform capacity planning for sitescope.
you enter the cpu and memory details of the system on which sitescope is running, and the number of monitors of each type and the frequency that they are to run.
the calculator then displays hp sitescope (11.31) page 50 of 285 deployment guide chapter 6: sizing sitescope the expected cpu usage and memory usage for each monitor type, and the recommended system requirements for the given workload.
this enables you to determine whether your configuration requires tuning.
note: the sitescope capacity calculator is supported in sitescopes running on windows versions only, and for the 64-bit monitors and solution templates listed in "supported monitors and solution templates" on the next page.
to use the sitescope capacity calculator: 1. before using the calculator, estimate the load on the sitescope server and use the system requirement recommendations in this guide for determining your hardware needs.
for details, see "system hardware requirements" on page 71.
2. open the sitescope capacity calculator which is available from: n the sitescope installation folder: <sitescope root directory>\tools\sitescopecapacitycalculator.xls n the hp software support site.
3. select the monitor usage tab according to the operating system on which sitescope is installed.
note that sitescope 11.30 supports 64-bit operating systems only.
4. in the requirements section, enter the following information: n average % cpu usage n cpu type n memory heap size (in megabytes) n for a 64-bit installation, select true if sitescope is integrated with bsm, or false for a standalone sitescope.
5. in the monitors section, enter the number of monitors for each type, and the update frequency for each monitor.
6. the results and recommendations are displayed in the results and recommendations section.
a difference of 30-40% between the expected results and the actual results should be considered as acceptable.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 51 of 285 deployment guide chapter 6: sizing sitescope supported monitors and solution templates the following monitors and solution templates are supported by the sitescope capacity calculator: monitors: l cpu l microsoft windows resources monitor l database counter l ping monitor l database query (64-bit only) l sap ccms monitor (32-bit only) l directory monitor (64-bit only) l service monitor l disk space l dns monitor l siebel application server monitor (32-bit only) l snmp by mib monitor l file monitor (64-bit only) l unix resources monitor (64-bit only) l jmx monitor (64-bit only) l url monitor l log file monitor (32-bit only) l url list monitor (64-bit only) l memory monitor l weblogic application server monitor (32-bit l microsoft iis server monitor l microsoft sql server monitor (32-bit only) l microsoft windows event log monitor (32-bit only) solution templates: only) l web service monitor (64-bit only) l websphere application server monitor (32-bit only) l microsoft exchange 2003 solution template (32-bit only) l siebel solution templates (32-bit only) note: the sitescope 32-bit monitors are deprecated and will not work after performing an upgrade to sitescope 11.30.
for more details, see "migrating from 32-bit to 64-bit sitescope" on page 85.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 52 of 285 deployment guide chapter 6: sizing sitescope sizing sitescope on windows platforms when sizing sitescope installed on a windows platform, you should perform the following sizing steps on sitescope and on the windows operating system: 1. size sitescope.
we recommend sizing sitescope first and letting sitescope run for at least 24 hours before proceeding to the next step.
for details, see the procedure "sizing sitescope" below.
2. tune the windows operating system.
after sizing sitescope and waiting at least 24 hours, you need to tune the windows operating system and then restart the sitescope server for the parameter changes to take effect.
for details, see the procedure "tuning microsoft windows operating system" on the next page 3.
general maintenance recommendations.
in addition, certain general maintenance recommendations should be followed to ensure optimal tuning.
for details, see "general maintenance recommendations" on page 55.
note: l we recommend making backups of any file or parameter that you change, so that it can be restored from that backup if needed.
l if the settings are not effective, do not randomly increase or decrease them.
contact hp software support for further analysis and troubleshooting.
sizing sitescope sizing sitescope involves checking that monitors use the verify error option only when absolutely necessary.
this option should be used on a very small number of monitors, and for monitors with a history of false no data alerts due to network issues or server load problems on the remote machine being monitored.
when this feature is enabled, a monitor that fails is immediately run again, bypassing the scheduler before the alert conditions are checked.
large numbers of these extra runs can significantly disrupt the scheduler and cause sitescope performance to degrade.
for monitors failing due to connection problems, verify error can take up to the connection timeout amount of time before the monitor is hp sitescope (11.31) page 53 of 285 deployment guide chapter 6: sizing sitescope terminated.
during this time, it locks the monitor thread and connection for 2 minutes, by default.
this delay can cause other monitors to wait and the failing monitor to skip.
to size sitescope:
1. for each monitor, select the properties tab, open the monitor run settings panel, and check whether verify error is selected.
clear the check box for monitors that do not require this option.
tip: for multiple monitors, we recommend using global search and replace to perform this task.
2. let sitescope run for at least 24 hours before tuning the windows operating system.
tuning microsoft windows operating system tuning microsoft windows operating systems involves changing a number of parameters using the configuration tool.
in addition, certain general maintenance recommendations should be followed to ensure optimal tuning.
to tune microsoft windows operating systems: 1. run the configuration tool, and select the sizing option.
this tool increases jvm heap size to 4096 mb, desktop heap size to 8192 kb, and the number of file handles to 18,000.
it also disables pop-up warnings for sitescope executables.
for details, see "running the configuration tool on windows platforms" on page 146.
note: the configuration tool supports the default sitescope service name only.
if you changed the service name, contact hp software support instead of running the configuration tool.
2. restart the sitescope server for the parameter changes to take effect.
3. configure other sizing-related parameters in preferences > infrastructure preferences as required.
tip: to achieve optimum performance, we recommend using the default values for these settings.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 54 of 285 deployment guide chapter 6: sizing sitescope general maintenance recommendations follow these general maintenance recommendations to size sitescope on windows.
l determine appropriate monitor frequency.
check the monitor run frequency and ensure that monitors are running at an appropriate interval.
for example, most disk monitors do not need to run every 5 minutes.
generally every 15, 30, or even 60 minutes is adequate for all volumes except, perhaps, /var, /tmp, and swap.
reducing monitor frequencies lowers the number of monitor runs per minute, and improves performance and capacity.
l optimize group structure.
group structure should take into account ease of use with sitescope, and performance optimization for sitescope.
ideally, the number of top-level groups should be minimized as should the depth of the structure.
performance can degrade if a group structure has more than 50 top-level groups, or if it is more than 5 levels deep.
l resolve sitescope configuration errors.
use the health monitors to resolve monitor configuration errors.
even a small number of errors can lead to performance and stability degradation.
for more information on resolving these errors, contact hp software support.
l plan the physical location of sitescope servers.
sitescope servers should be physically located as close as possible on the local network to the machines they are monitoring.
it is not recommended to monitor over a wan connection, although in some cases where the connection has sufficient capacity and low latency, this may be acceptable.
sizing sitescope on linux platforms sizing sitescope on linux operating systems involves changing a number of parameters.
in addition, certain general maintenance recommendations should be followed to ensure optimal tuning.
1. tune the operating system.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 55 of 285 deployment guide chapter 6: sizing sitescope configure the appropriate number of threads for the sitescope instance and configure the linux operating system parameters.
for details, see the procedure "tuning the operating system" below.
2. tune the java virtual machine.
configure the jvm heap size, thread stack size, and implement parallel garbage collection.
for details, see the procedure "tuning the java virtual machine" on page 58.
3. general maintenance recommendations.
in addition, certain general maintenance recommendations should be followed to ensure optimal tuning.
for details, see "general maintenance recommendations" on page 58.
tuning the operating system tuning the operating system involves configuring the appropriate number of monitors for the sitescope instance and configuring the linux operating system parameters.
configuring the maximum number of running monitors you can configure the maximum monitor running setting in preferences > infrastructure preferences > server settings.
for details, see the preferences section in using sitescope in the sitescope help.
tip: to achieve optimum performance, we recommend using the default value for this setting.
configuring linux operating system parameters the linux operating system can support large numbers of threads.
to enable this feature, perform the following on the sitescope server.
to configure the linux operating system parameters: 1. modify the kernel file descriptor limits.
a. edit the /etc/system file and add the following line: set rlim_fd_max=8192 hp sitescope (11.31) page 56 of 285 deployment guide chapter 6: sizing sitescope note: o since this path can vary on different linux platforms, you should add the corresponding path according to your linux platform.
o 1024 is the default (this limit does not apply to user root).
the value 8192 is sufficient for even the largest instance of sitescope.
use this high value rather than experiment with lower values.
this avoids the need to restart the machine later if the lower value is not sufficient.
b. restart the server.
2. modify the user runtime limits.
a. in <sitescope root directory>\bin directory, add the following line to the sitescope startup scripts start-monitor and start-service: ulimit -n 8192 b. check that the following parameters have the following minimum values.
contact your unix system administrator for more information.
parameter core file size (blocks) data seg size (kbytes) file size (blocks) open files pipe size (512 bytes) stack size (kbytes) cpu time (seconds) max user processes virtual memory (kbytes) minimum value unlimited unlimited unlimited 8192 10 8192 unlimited 8192 unlimited you do not need to restart the sitescope application or the server after modifying the runtime limits.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 57 of 285 deployment guide chapter 6: sizing sitescope tuning the java virtual machine
you should configure the jvm as follows for optimal performance.
to configure the jvm: 1. increase heap space.
by default, the java heap space for sitescope is set to 512 mb.
this is insufficient for the normal operation of large instances.
the java heap space can be increased up to 4096 mb (this is the recommended heap size for large loads) by modifying start-service and start-monitor scripts in <sitescope root directory>\bin directory.
we recommend setting the minimum heap size to equal maximal heap in order to enhance performance on sitescope startup.
for example, change -xmx4096m –xms512m to -xmx4096m – xms4096m. 2.
decrease thread stack size (-xss).
each thread created by sitescope instantiates a stack with -xss amount of allocated memory.
the default unix jre maximum thread stack size, -xss, is 512 kb memory per thread.
unless specified on the java command line in <sitescope root directory>\bin\start-monitor, the default maximum thread stack size is used.
the default size can limit the number of threads by exceeding the available memory.
instances of 4000 or more monitors can benefit from a -xss of 128 kb.
general maintenance recommendations there are general maintenance recommendations to size sitescope on linux platforms.
l use health monitors.
use health monitors with depends on wherever possible, but especially for all monitors using remote unix connections.
the health monitor can prevent server performance degradation by detecting if multiple machines become unavailable and lock ssh connection threads.
l minimize the use of the verify error feature.
when the verify error option is enabled in the monitor run settings panel, a monitor that fails is immediately run again, bypassing the scheduler before the alert conditions are checked.
large hp sitescope (11.31) page 58 of 285 deployment guide chapter 6: sizing sitescope numbers of these extra runs can significantly disrupt the scheduler and cause sitescope performance to degrade.
for monitors failing due to connection problems, verify error can take up to the connection timeout amount of time before the monitor is terminated.
during this time, it locks the monitor thread and connection for 2 minutes, by default.
this delay can cause other monitors to wait and the failing monitor to skip.
l use ssh and internal java libraries.
wherever possible, use ssh and internal java libraries option when defining a remote preference with a ssh connection method.
internal java libraries is a third-party, java-based, ssh client.
this client significantly improves performance and scalability over telnet and the host operating system’s ssh client.
this client supports ssh1, ssh2, public key authentication, and so forth.
make sure that connection caching is enabled (in the new/edit microsoft windows/unix remote server dialog box, expand advanced settings and clear the disable connection caching check box).
the connection limit should be adjusted to enable all monitors running against a particular server to execute in a timely manner.
l determine appropriate monitor frequency.
check the monitor run frequency and ensure that monitors are running at an appropriate interval.
for example, most disk monitors do not need to run every 5 minutes.
generally every 15, 30, or even 60 minutes is adequate for all volumes except, perhaps, /var, /tmp, and swap.
reducing monitor frequencies lowers the number of monitor runs per minute, and improves performance and capacity.
l optimize group structure.
group structure should take into account ease of use with sitescope, and performance optimization for sitescope.
ideally, the number of top-level groups should be minimized as should the depth of the structure.
performance can degrade if a group structure has more than 50 top-level groups, or if it is more than 5 levels deep.
l resolve sitescope configuration errors.
use the health monitors to resolve monitor configuration errors.
even a small number of errors can lead to performance and stability degradation.
for more information on resolving these errors, contact hp software support.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 59 of 285 deployment guide chapter 6: sizing sitescope l plan the physical location of sitescope servers.
sitescope servers should be physically located as close as possible on the local network to the machines they are monitoring.
when monitoring across wan or slow network links, the network usually becomes the bottleneck.
this can require additional time for the monitors to run.
it is not recommended to monitor over a wan connection, although in some cases where the connection has sufficient capacity and low latency, this may be acceptable.
l use local user accounts.
local user accounts are preferred over directory service accounts for unix remote authentication.
local user accounts avoid dependency on a directory service server for authentication.
this ensures rapid authentication and prevents connection failures if the directory service server goes down.
in some cases, very large instances of sitescope can negatively impact the performance of the directory services server.
it is recommended that this server be physically close to the servers being monitored.
troubleshooting and limitations problem: jvm crashes with an "out of swap space" error.
you can detect an out of swap space error by: 1. creating a microsoft windows resources monitor to monitor the virtual bytes counter on the target sitescope server.
2. configuring the following threshold settings: error if >= 7.9 gb warning if >= 7.8gb (the process crashes when its value reaches 8 gb) solution: 1. reduce the jvm heap size.
for details on changing the jvm heap size, see "running the configuration tool on windows platforms" on page 146.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 60 of 285 deployment guide chapter 6: sizing sitescope 2.
reduce the number of threads sitescope uses by reducing the number of concurrent monitors running (in preferences > infrastructure preferences > server settings > maximum monitor processes).
hp sitescope (11.31) page 61 of 285 chapter 7: understanding agentless monitoring this chapter includes: "sitescope monitoring capabilities overview" below "understanding the agentless monitoring environment" on the next page "monitor permissions and credentials" on page 66 l l l sitescope monitoring capabilities overview this section introduces sitescope’s agentless monitoring concept.
agentless monitoring means that monitoring can be accomplished without the deployment of agent software onto the servers to be monitored.
this makes deployment and maintenance of sitescope relatively simple compared to other performance or operational monitoring solutions.
unlike agent-based monitoring approaches, sitescope reduces total cost of ownership by: l gathering detailed performance data for infrastructure components.
l eliminating the need for extra memory or cpu power on production systems to run a monitoring agent.
l reducing the time and cost of maintenance by consolidating all monitoring components to a central server.
l removing any requirement to take a production system offline to update its monitoring agent.
l eliminating time needed to tune monitoring agents to coexist with other agents.
l reducing installation time by eliminating the need to physically visit production servers or wait for software distribution operations.
l reducing the possibility of an unstable agent causing system downtime on a production server.
sitescope is a versatile operational monitoring solution that provides many different monitor types for monitoring systems and services at many levels.
many of the monitor types can be further customized for special environments.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 62 of 285 deployment guide chapter 7: understanding agentless monitoring enterprises and organizations often need to deploy and maintain multiple solutions to monitor operations and availability at these different levels.
operational monitoring can be divided into several levels or layers as described in the following table: monitor type description server health monitors server machine resources such as cpu utilization, memory, storage space, as well as the status of key processes and services.
web process and content monitors availability of key urls, the function of key web-based processes, and monitors key text content.
application performance monitors performance statistics for mission critical applications such as web servers, databases, and other application servers.
network monitors connectivity and availability of services.
understanding the agentless monitoring environment the majority of sitescope monitoring is performed by emulating web or network clients that make requests of servers and applications in the network environment.
for this reason, sitescope must be able to access servers, systems, and applications throughout the network.
this section contains the following topics: "sitescope monitoring methods" below "firewalls and sitescope deployment" on page 65 l l sitescope monitoring methods the methods used by sitescope for monitoring systems, servers, and applications can be divided into two categories: l standards-based network protocols.
this category includes monitoring using http, https, ftp, smtp, snmp, and udp.
these types of monitors are generally independent of the platform or operating system on which sitescope is running.
for example, sitescope installed on linux can monitor web pages, file downloads, email transmission, and snmp data on servers running windows, hp-ux, and solaris.
l platform-specific network services and commands.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 63 of 285 deployment guide chapter 7: understanding agentless monitoring this category includes monitor types that log on as a client to a remote machine and request information.
for example, sitescope can use telnet or ssh to log into a remote server and request information regarding disk space, memory, or processes.
on the microsoft windows platform, sitescope also makes use of windows performance counter libraries.
some limitations exist in monitoring across different operating systems for monitor types that rely on platform-specific services.
the following diagram shows a general overview of agentless monitoring with sitescope.
sitescope monitors make requests of services on remote machines to gather data on performance and availability.
sitescope server monitors (for example, cpu, disk space, memory, service) can be used to monitor server resources on the following platforms: windows, aix, centos, freebsd, hp ilo, hp-ux, hp/ux, hp/ux64-bit, linux, macosx, nonstopos, openserver, red hat enterprise linux, sco, sgi irix, solaris zones, sun fire x64 ilom, sun solaris, sunos, tru64 5.x,tru64 pre 4.x (digital), and ubuntu linux.
note: an ssh connection is required to monitor server resources (for example, cpu utilization, memory) on windows machines from a sitescope running on linux.
a secure shell server must be installed on each windows machine that you want to monitor in this way.
for more information on enabling this capability, see the sitescope monitoring using secure shell (ssh) section in using sitescope in the sitescope help.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 64 of 285 deployment guide chapter 7: understanding agentless monitoring sitescope includes an adapter configuration template that enables you to extend sitescope capabilities to monitor other versions of the unix operating system.
for more information, see unix operating system adapters in sitescope help.
you need to enable login accounts on each server for which you want sitescope to access system data remotely.
the login account on the monitored servers must be configured to match the account under which sitescope is installed and running.
for example, if sitescope is running under an account with the username sitescope, remote login accounts on servers that are to be monitored by this sitescope installation need to have user login accounts configured for the sitescope user.
firewalls and sitescope deployment for security reasons, it is recommended not to use sitescope to monitor servers through a firewall because of the different protocols and ports required for server monitoring.
sitescope licensing supports separate sitescope installations for both sides of a firewall.
two or more sitescope installations can be accessed from a single workstation using http or https.
the following table lists the ports commonly used by sitescope for monitoring and alerting in a typical monitoring environment: sitescope function sitescope web server sitescope reports ftp monitor mail monitor news monitor ping monitor snmp monitor url monitor remote windows monitoring email alert post alert snmp trap alert default port used port 8080 port 8888 port 21 port 25 (smtp), 110 (pop3), 143 (imap) port 119 icmp packets port 161 (udp) port 80,443 port 139 port 25 port 80,443 port 162 (udp) hp sitescope (11.31) page 65 of 285 deployment guide chapter 7: understanding agentless monitoring sitescope function remote unix ssh remote unix telnet remote unix rlogin default port used port 22 port 23 port 513 monitor permissions and credentials user permissions and credentials are needed to access each monitor.
for details on the required permissions and credentials, and the corresponding protocol used by each monitor, see the monitor permissions and credentials section in the monitor reference guide in the sitescope help.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 66 of 285 part 2: before installing sitescope hp sitescope (11.31) page 67 of 285 chapter 8: installation overview sitescope is installed on a single server, and runs as a single application on windows platforms, or as a single application or various processes on linux platforms.
there are several planning steps and actions you should consider before you install sitescope to facilitate the deployment and management of your monitoring environment.
the following is an overview of the steps involved in deploying the sitescope application.
1. prepare a server where the sitescope application is to be installed and run.
note: n it is recommended not to install more that one sitescope on a single machine.
n if you plan to use sitescope failover to provide backup monitoring availability in case of a sitescope server failure, see the hp sitescope failover guide located in <sitescope root directory>\sisdocs\pdfs\sitescopefailover.pdf.
2. obtain the sitescope installation executable.
for details, see "installation flow" on page 101.
3. create a directory where the application is installed and set user permissions as necessary.
note: you must create a new directory for installation of sitescope 11.30.
do not install version 11.30 into a directory used for a previous version of sitescope.
4. run the sitescope installation executable or installation script, directing the script to install the application into the location you have prepared.
for more information, see "installation flow" on page 101.
5. restart the server if necessary (windows installations only).
6. confirm that sitescope is running by connecting to it using a compatible web browser.
for more information, see "post-installation: getting started" on page 225.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 68 of 285 deployment guide chapter 8: installation overview 7. perform post-installation steps to prepare sitescope for production use.
for more information, see "post-installation administration" on page 226.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 69 of 285 chapter 9: installation requirements this chapter includes: "system requirements" below "sitescope capacity limitations" on page 77 "sitescope support matrices" on page 77 l l l system requirements this section describes the minimum system requirements and recommendations for running sitescope on the supported operating systems.
note: l installing sitescope on a 32-bit windows or linux operating system, or as a 32-bit application on a 64-bit windows operating system is no longer supported.
sitescope can only be installed and run as a 64-bit application.
l running sitescope on a solaris platform was deprecated, and the solaris installer is no longer available.
l for troubleshooting and limitations for installing sitescope on different environments, see "troubleshooting and limitations" on page 110.
this section includes the following topics: "system hardware requirements" on the next page "server system requirements for windows" on page 72 "server system requirements for linux" on page 72 "client system requirements" on page 74 l l l l hp sitescope (11.31) page 70 of 285 deployment guide chapter 9: installation requirements system hardware requirements hardware requirements specifications: computer/processor 1 core / 2000 mhz minimum memory 2 gb minimum 8gb to 16 gb is common for a highly loaded environment free hard disk space 10 gb minimum network card 1 physical gigabit network interface card minimum virtualization requirements specifications: l using vmware and hyper-v virtual machines is supported for all the supported operating systems (see "server system requirements for windows" on the next page, "server system requirements for linux" on the next page).
l for better performance and stability, especially in a highly-loaded sitescope environment, it is recommended to use physical hardware.
l for vmware, vmware tools must be installed on the guest operating system.
certified configurations the following configuration has been certified in a high load environment for an installation of sitescope that was integrated with bsm. operating system system type cpu microsoft windows server 2012 r2 (64-bit) acpi multiprocessor x64-based pc 4 physical intel xeon (r) x5650 processors @2.67 ghz each total physical memory (ram) java heap memory total number of monitors total number of remote servers monitor runs per minute 16 gb 8192 mb 24,000 2,500 3,500 hp sitescope (11.31) page 71 of 285 deployment guide chapter 9: installation requirements note: l monitor capacity and velocity can be significantly impacted by numerous factors including, but not limited to the following: sitescope server hardware, operating system, patches, third-party software, network configuration and architecture, location of the sitescope server in relation to the servers being monitored, remotes connection protocol type, monitor types and distribution by type, monitor frequency, monitor execution time, business service management integration, and database logging.
l when working under high load, you should suspend all monitors before connecting to bsm for the first time.
server system requirements for windows the following microsoft windows operating system versions have been certified: l microsoft windows server 2008 r2 sp1 standard/enterprise/datacenter edition (64-bit) l microsoft windows server 2012 standard/datacenter edition (64-bit)
l microsoft windows server 2012 r2 standard edition (64-bit) server system requirements for linux the following linux 64-bit operating system versions have been certified: l oracle enterprise linux (oel) 6.0-6.5, 7.0 l red hat es/as linux 5.5-5.8, 6.0-6.5 (only 6.0, 6.2, 6.4, 6.5 are certified), 7.0, 7.1 l centos 6.2 note: l the oel and centos environments must be manually configured before installing sitescope.
for details, see "installation prerequisites - linux" on page 105, "installing dependencies on an oracle enterprise linux 6.0, 6.1 environment" on page 106 and "installation prerequisites - centos 6.2" on page 107.
l if you plan to integrate sitescope with hpom or bsm, you need to configure dependencies on the red hat es linux 6.0 (64-bit) environment before installing the hp operations agent (the hp sitescope (11.31) page 72 of 285 deployment guide chapter 9: installation requirements agent is required for sending events and storing metrics data to hpom or bsm).
for details on configuring the dependencies and installing the agent, see the integrating sitescope with hp operations manager products guide available in the sitescope help or on the hp software integrations site.
l when sitescope is installed on red hat linux, the sitescope server health monitor requires valid output of sar -w and sar -b commands for the swapins/sec, swapouts/sec, pageins/sec, and pageouts/sec counters.
if these commands do not work, no errors are thrown and these counters are shown as n/a. to enable them to run, edit the crontab by adding the command "/usr/local/lib/sa/sadc -" to run once a day.
since the binary path can vary on 32- and 64-bit systems and on different linux platforms, you should add the corresponding path according to your linux platform.
l to be able to monitor cpu and memory usage on sitescope or a remote server running on a red hat linux environment, the sysstat package must be installed on the sitescope server and on all remote servers being monitored (it is not included out-of-the-box).
l red hat linux 9 with native posix threading library (nptl) is not supported.
l to view certain report elements on sitescope for linux, it is necessary that an x window system be installed and running on the server where sitescope is running.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 73 of 285 deployment guide chapter 9: installation requirements client system requirements sitescope client is supported on all microsoft windows operating systems using the following: hp sitescope (11.31) page 74 of 285 deployment guide chapter 9: installation requirements supported browsers: sitescope ui l microsoft internet explorer 9, 10, 11 internet explorer 10 is supported with the following limitation: there is no support for add-ons, like java, when internet explorer 10 is used from the start screen.
to use sitescope in internet explorer 10, you must switch to internet explorer desktop mode and install java.
for details, see http://windows.microsoft.com/en-us/internet-explorer/install-java#ie=ie-10.
internet explorer 10 and 11 are supported with the following limitation: alert, monitor, and server-centric reports are supported in compatibility mode with document mode: quirks only; the default document mode: ie5 quirks is not supported.
to enable quirks mode, open the alert, monitor, or server-centric report, and press f12.
in the developer tools, select document mode > quirks.
l google chrome browsers that support npapi (latest certified version): 42.0.2311.90 m. note: n to enable npapi in chrome, enter chrome://flags/#enable-npapi in your url bar, click the enable link for the enable npapi configuration option, and then click the relaunch button at the bottom of the configuration page.
for details, see https://java.com/en/download/faq/chrome.xml. n due to a browser specific limitation, the page options and help links do not work in google chrome.
l mozilla firefox (latest certified version): 38 esr l safari 8.0 on mac os (10.10 yosemite) note: the java plugin must be set to run in unsafe mode in preferences > security > manage website settings either for individual web sites (the sitescope hosts) or for all sites.
prerequisites: the browser must be set to enable javascript execution, allow pop-ups from the sitescope application, and accept third-party cookies and allow session cookies.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 75 of 285 deployment guide chapter 9: installation requirements supported browsers: unified console (multi- view, event console, manage view) internet explorer 9, 10, 11 l note: internet explorer 9 is supported with the following limitations: n it is not supported on microsoft windows 7 n edition.
n it is not supported on microsoft windows server 2008.
l google chrome browsers (latest certified version): 42.0.2311.90 m. l mozilla firefox (latest certified version): 38 esr l safari (latest certified version): 8.0 for mac ipad 3 with safari (ios 7 with latest updates) l l android tablet with chrome 34.0.1847 (full hd display) internet explorer 9, 10, 11 l note: while internet explorer 8 can be used to access the multi-view page in mybsm, it is no longer officially supported, and we recommend switching to one of the supported browsers, since the event console and the tab functionality in the unified console will not work in internet explorer 8.
l jre version 8 (jre 8 update 51 is the latest certified version) tip:
java is installed as part of the sitescope installation and should not be patched or updated independently.
you can check the version of java by going to <sitescope installation directory>\java\bin and running the following from the command line: java –server –fullversion supported browsers: sitescope multi- view page in mybsm java plug-in (required to open sitescope user interface)
hp sitescope (11.31) page 76 of 285 deployment guide chapter 9: installation requirements sitescope capacity limitations l when sitescope is integrated with bsm, performing very high load operations might cause problems in sitescope.
use the following guidelines: n do not run the publish template changes wizard for over 3,000 monitors at once.
n do not run the monitor deployment wizard to create over 3,000 monitors at once.
n do not copy/paste over 3,000 monitors in a single action.
n do not perform a global search and replace to modify business service management integration properties for over 2,500 monitors at one time.
l we do not recommend creating more than 1000 remote servers that use an ssh connection (assuming the default parameter settings, such as run frequency, number of connections, and so forth, are used).
if you need to monitor more than 1000 monitors using ssh, you should add another sitescope server.
tip:
sitescope includes a tool that helps you predict system behavior and perform capacity planning for sitescope.
for details, see "sitescope capacity calculator" on page 50.
sitescope support matrices this section includes: "hp business service management integration support matrix" on the next page "hp operations manager (hpom) integration support matrix" on the next page "hp operations agent support matrix" on page 80 "hp sitescope for load testing support matrix" on page 80 "hp network node manager i (nnmi) support matrix" on page 81 l l l l l note: co-existent deployments of sitescope 11.30 with other products have neither been tested nor certified.
such deployments are neither supported nor recommended.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 77 of 285 deployment guide chapter 9: installation requirements hp business service management integration support matrix hp sitescope version hp business service management version 9.26 9.2x 9.1x 9.0x sitescope 11.3x √ (recommended) √ √ √ 8.x √ hp operations manager (hpom) integration support matrix for the most up-to-date version of the support matrix, including the latest certified service packs, check the hp integrations site.
hpom version sitescope 11.3x integration hpom for windows 8.1x (with patch omw_00149) hpom for windows 9.0 hpom for linux/solaris 9.0 hpom for linux/solaris 9.10 events integration node discovery integration monitor discovery integration template integration supported supported supported not supported supported supported with patch omw_ 00097/98 or later (32-bit/64-bit) supported supported with patch 159 supported not supported supported supported supported supported supported with patch 9.10.200 or later supported with patch 9.10.210 and hotfix qccr1a125751, or with patches later than 9.10.210 hpom for linux/solaris 9.20 supported supported supported supported note: for hp operations manager hardware and software configuration requirements, see the relevant version of the operations manager for windows/unix installation guide available on the hp sitescope (11.31) page 78 of 285 deployment guide chapter 9: installation requirements hp software support site.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 79 of 285 deployment guide chapter 9: installation requirements hp operations agent support matrix hp sitescope version 11.0x 11.1x
hp operations agent version 8.60.70 8.60.501 11.20 - 11.22 11.02.011 11.23 11.24 11.3x 11.02.011, 11.13* 11.02.011, 11.13**, 11.14** 11.14*** *supported as an upgrade of installed hp operations agent 11.02 to the certified version.
**the hp operations agent should be installed separately and configured using the sitescope configuration tool.
***the hp operations agent is no longer included in the sitescope installer or in the configuration tool.
instead, you must manually install and configure the agent.
for details, see the integrating sitescope with hp operations manager products guide available in the sitescope help or on the hp software integrations site.
note: l microsoft installer 4.5 or later is required for installing the hp operations agent.
l for more information on hp operations agent installation requirements, see the hp operations agent 11.14 installation guide, available from the hp software support site.
hp sitescope for load testing support matrix for the list of supported loadrunner and performance center versions supported in this release, refer to the hp integrations site: hp sitescope (11.31) page 80 of 285 deployment guide chapter 9: installation requirements l hp performance center: https://softwaresupport.hp.com/group/softwaresupport/search-result/- /facetsearch/document/km01695224 l hp loadrunner: https://softwaresupport.hp.com/group/softwaresupport/search-result/- /facetsearch/document/km01695208 note: access requires an hp passport login (register for an hp passport at http://h20229.www2.hp.com/passport-registration.html).
hp network node manager i (nnmi) support matrix for the most up-to-date version of the support matrix, including the latest certified service packs, check the hp integrations site (https://softwaresupport.hp.com/group/softwaresupport/search-result/- /facetsearch/document/km01696009).
integration supported versions event integration metrics integration sitescope version 11.10 or later nnmi version 9.10 or later (9.21 is the latest certified nnmi version) sitescope version 11.10 or later nnmi version 9.10 or later nnm ispi performance for metrics version 9.10 or later (9.22 is the latest nnmi certified version) hp sitescope (11.31) page 81 of 285 chapter 10: upgrading sitescope this chapter includes: "before performing the upgrade" below "migrating from 32-bit to 64-bit sitescope" on page 85 "upgrading an existing sitescope installation" on page 86 "backing up sitescope configuration data" on page 88 "importing configuration data" on page 89 "upgrading from sitescope 10.x to sitescope 11.13 or 11.24" on page 89 "upgrading sitescope 11.13 or 11.24 to sitescope 11.3x" on page 91 "troubleshooting and limitations" on page 94 l l l l l l l l before performing the upgrade this section describes how to upgrade existing sitescope installations with minimum disruption to your system and operations.
sitescope is designed for backward compatibility.
this means you can install newer versions of sitescope and transfer monitor configurations from an existing sitescope installation.
before upgrading sitescope, you should consider the following: l sitescope must be installed on a supported windows or linux environments as listed in "system requirements" on page 70.
l if you plan to enable sitescope to send events and to act as a data storage for metrics data when sitescope is integrated with hp operations manager or bsm, you must install the hp operations agent on the sitescope server.
for details on installing the agent, see the integrating sitescope with hp operations manager products guide available in the sitescope help or on the hp software integrations site.
l sitescope 11.30 must be installed before you can install the latest minor-minor version (for example, 11.31).
for upgrade details, see "upgrading an existing sitescope installation" on hp sitescope (11.31) page 82 of 285 deployment guide chapter 10: upgrading sitescope page 86.
l you can upgrade from 11.13 or 11.24 to sitescope 11.30 by using the configuration tool to make a backup of your current sitescope configuration data, uninstalling your current sitescope version, installing sitescope 11.30 followed by the latest minor-minor version on top of it (if one exists), and then importing the configuration data back into sitescope.
for upgrade instructions, see "upgrading sitescope 11.13 or 11.24 to sitescope 11.3x" on page 91.
l you can upgrade from sitescope 10.x by first upgrading to sitescope 11.13 or 11.24, and then upgrading sitescope 11.13 or 11.24 to sitescope 11.30.
for upgrade instructions, see "upgrading from sitescope 10.x to sitescope 11.13 or 11.24" on page 89. notes and limitations l cross-platform upgrade is not supported.
l you may face issues when importing sitescope windows configurations into linux deployments (for example, when adding windows remotes with netbios or wmi connection type).
check that you do not have platform specific monitor settings, such as url monitors with wininet options, file monitors on windows remotes, or script monitors.
l the following monitors were deprecated.
if these monitors were configured in a previous version of sitescope, they are still displayed in sitescope after performing an upgrade (although the 32-bit only monitors will not work).
note that these monitors are still supported in sitescope 11.24 and earlier versions.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 83 of 285 deployment guide chapter 10: upgrading sitescope 32-bit only monitors (unable to run on 64-bit environment) 32/64-bit monitors n microsoft exchange 2003 mailbox1 n microsoft exchange 5.5 message traffic1 n mailbox microsoft exchange 2003 public n microsoft exchange 2000/2003 message folder1 traffic1 n microsoft windows media player 2 n microsoft windows dial-up2 n real media player2 n sybase n tuxedo notes: 1 we recommend migrating to microsoft exchange 2007 or later.
2 currently not planned for future version.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 84 of 285 deployment guide chapter 10: upgrading sitescope migrating from 32-bit to 64-bit sitescope sitescope
11.3x supports only 64-bit operating systems and 64-bit java versions.
as a result, the sitescope 32-bit and sitescope 32-bit on 64-bit installers no longer exist in sitescope 11.3x.
from sitescope 11.30, the web script monitor is supported in 64-bit.
to use the monitor, you must install hp load generator 12.02 on the sitescope server, and specify the path to the load generator.
for details, see the web script monitor section in sitescope monitor reference guide.
the other 32-bit monitors are deprecated and will not work after upgrading from sitescope 11.13 or 11.24 to sitescope 11.3x.
for the list of impacted monitors, recommended alternative monitors, and for further details, see the notes and limitations section in "before performing the upgrade" on page 82.
to upgrade from sitescope 10.x (32-bit version) to sitescope 11.3x
(64-bit version): 1. follow the steps in "upgrading from sitescope 10.x to sitescope 11.13 or 11.24" on page 89.
2. follow the steps in "upgrading sitescope 11.13 or 11.24 to sitescope 11.3x" on page 91 (in step 5, make sure that you install sitescope on a 64-bit machine).
hp sitescope (11.31) page 85 of 285 deployment guide chapter 10: upgrading sitescope upgrading an existing sitescope installation note: this topic contains instructions for upgrading your current version of sitescope to the latest sitescope 11.3x release.
if you are installing sitescope without performing an upgrade, see "installation workflow" on page 100.
it is recommended that you perform the following steps for upgrading your version of sitescope: 1. make sure the sitescope process/service has been stopped (the installer should automatically stop the process before installation).
for more information, see "starting and stopping the sitescope service on windows platform" on page 230 or "starting and stopping the sitescope process on linux platforms" on page 231.
2. make a backup copy of sitescope monitor configuration data using the configuration tool from your current version of sitescope.
use the configuration tool to make a backup of your current sitescope installation directory by exporting sitescope data from your current sitescope for later import into sitescope.
for more information, see "backing up sitescope configuration data" on page 88.
3. uninstall the current version of sitescope (if earlier than sitescope 11.30), and then install sitescope 11.30.
sitescope 11.30 must be installed before you can install the latest minor-minor version.
a. uninstall the current version of sitescope (if earlier than sitescope 11.30).
for details, see "uninstalling sitescope" on page 170.
b. install sitescope 11.30 in a clean directory structure.
the new directory you create for installing sitescope must be named sitescope.
for details on installing sitescope 11.30, see "installation flow" on page 101.
4. import the new sitescope license.
to upgrade from an earlier version of sitescope to sitescope 11.30, contact your hp support renewal rep to request product contract migration first.
once contract migration is completed, go to the my software updates portal (https://h20575.www2.hp.com/usbportal/softwareupdate.do) and click the get licensing tab to get the new license key(s).
hp sitescope (11.31) page 86 of 285 deployment guide chapter 10: upgrading sitescope when you receive the license key, open sitescope, select preferences > general preferences, and expand the licenses panel.
import the new license file.
sitescope should start working.
note: for license purchase inquiries (or if you require additional capacity), contact your hp sales representative or use the “contact us” link in the hp sitescope product page.
5. download and install the latest minor-minor version (for example, 11.31) and intermediate patch (if available) from the hp software support site.
a. go to the hp software support web site (https://softwaresupport.hp.com) and sign in.
b. click search.
c. select the relevant product, the most recent 11.3x minor-minor version, and operating system.
d. under document type, select patches.
e. locate the installation files.
f. save the package locally and launch the relevant setup file to install the patch.
note: to install a sitescope minor-minor version using a silent installation, see "how to run a silent installation for a sitescope 11.3x minor-minor version (patch):" on page 143.
g. repeat this procedure for the latest intermediate patch (if available).
6. install and configure the hp operations agent (required if integrating sitescope with hpom or bsm) for details on installing and configuring the agent, see the integrating sitescope with hp operations manager products guide available in the sitescope help or on the hp software integrations site.
7. install microsoft hotfixes.
to improve sitescope scalability and performance, we recommend installing microsoft hotfixes.
for more information, see "install microsoft hotfixes" on page 229.
8. import the monitor configuration data.
after installation, import the monitor configuration data (from step 2) using the configuration tool.
for more information, see "importing configuration data" on page 89.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 87 of 285 deployment guide chapter 10: upgrading sitescope 9.
(optional) after importing data from earlier versions of sitescope, start sitescope by running the batch file/start command shell script.
to avoid sitescope restarting itself after an upgrade if it takes longer than 15 minutes for the monitors to run, start sitescope by running the go.bat file from the <sitescope root directory>\bin directory (on windows platforms), or by running the start command shell script using the syntax <installpath>/sitescope/start (on linux platforms).
10.
if using sitescope failover, upgrade the failover server with the corresponding sitescope failover version.
after upgrading the primary server, upgrade the failover server with the corresponding sitescope failover version, and connect the failover server to the upgraded primary server.
for details, see the upgrading sitescope failover section of the sitescope failover guide.
backing up sitescope configuration data the simplest way to prepare for a sitescope upgrade is to use the configuration tool to make a backup of your current sitescope installation directory and the required subdirectories within the directory.
using the configuration tool, you can export sitescope data such as templates, logs, monitor configuration files, server certificates, scripts, and so forth from your current sitescope for later import into sitescope.
the user data is exported to a .zip file.
alternatively, you can manually back up your sitescope installation.
for details, see "backing up and recovering a sitescope installation if unable to start sitescope" on page 236.
note: l you should make a backup of the <sitescope>\htdocs directory and copy it to the sitescope 11.30 directory after an upgrade so that you can see old reports, since this directory is not copied when you export sitescope data.
l when importing configurations with monitors deployed from monitor deployment wizard templates or template examples, you must rename the templates on the source sitescope before exporting the configuration, or rename or delete the templates on the destination sitescope.
for details on exporting sitescope data using the configuration tool, see "using the sitescope configuration tool" on page 146.
alternatively, you can export sitescope data as part of the installation process.
for details, see "installation workflow" on page 100.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 88 of 285 deployment guide chapter 10: upgrading sitescope importing configuration data after upgrading sitescope, monitor configuration data can be copied from earlier versions of sitescope using the configuration tool.
for details, see "using the sitescope configuration tool" on page 146.
alternatively, if you manually created a back up, you must delete from the new installation directory all the folders and files that you backed up, and then copy the backed up folders and files to the installation directory.
for details, see "backing up and recovering a sitescope installation if unable to start sitescope" on page 236.
upgrading from sitescope 10.x to sitescope 11.13 or 11.24 since sitescope does not support a direct upgrade from sitescope 10.x to 11.30, you must first upgrade to sitescope 11.13 or 11.24, and then upgrade sitescope 11.13 or 11.24 to sitescope 11.30.
note: it is highly recommended that you update sitescope 10.x to sitescope 10.14 before performing the upgrade to sitescope 11.13 or 11.24.
to perform the upgrade: 1. stop the sitescope service.
2. export the sitescope configuration from sitescope 10.x (preferable after upgrading to sitescope 10.14).
a. backup the sitescope 10.x folder (copy it to a temp folder on your system).
b. export the sitescope configuration: i. launch the sitescope configuration tool (start > programs >
hp sitescope > configuration tool) and click next.
ii.
select export/import user data and click next.
iii. select export user data and click next.
iv. select the location of the sitescope 10.x installation directory, and a target directory where you want to save exported data.
enter a backup file name.
if you want to generate reports for old data, select include log files.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 89 of 285 deployment guide chapter 10: upgrading sitescope v. after the export is completed, click next/finish.
vi.
copy the third-party libraries and jars that are used for various monitors (for example, sap client, jdbc drivers) to the temp directory, since these files are not included in the export.
3. uninstall sitescope 10.x.
a. select start >
settings > control panel > add or remove programs.
b. uninstall window launches.
click next twice and uninstall begins.
c. after uninstall is complete, click finish.
d. delete any remaining files under the sitescope directory.
e. confirm that the sitescope service was removed with the uninstall from the windows services.
if the sitescope service is still displayed, it can be removed manually by running “sc delete sitescope” from command prompt.
f.
reboot the server.
4. install sitescope 11.10 or 11.20, and then install the latest minor-minor version (11.13 or 11.24) from the software patches section of the hp software support site.
5. import data into sitescope 11.13 or 11.24: a. run the configuration tool (start > programs >
hp sitescope > configuration tool) and click next.
b. select import configuration and click next.
c. click next.
d. select the .zip file previously exported from the 10.x installation, verify the target directory is correct, and then click next.
e.
after import is completed, click finish (the configuration tool closes).
note: run the configuration tool a second time and select the sizing option.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 90 of 285 deployment guide chapter 10: upgrading sitescope f.
if you want to use previously generated reports, replace the existing <sitescope>\htdoc folder with the \htdocs folder that you backed up from the previous sitescope in step 2a.
6. start sitescope 11.13 or 11.24 with the sitescope 10.x configuration.
sitescope upgrades the configuration.
7. continue with the steps in "upgrading sitescope 11.13 or 11.24 to sitescope 11.3x" below upgrading sitescope 11.13 or 11.24 to sitescope 11.3x
it is recommended that you perform the following steps to upgrade from sitescope 11.13 or 11.24 to sitescope 11.3x: to perform the upgrade: 1. stop the sitescope service.
2. backup the sitescope 11.13/11.24 folder (copy it to a temp folder on your system).
3. export sitescope configuration from sitescope 11.13/11.24: a. launch the sitescope configuration tool (start > programs >
hp sitescope > configuration tool) and click next.
b. select export configuration and click next.
c. in the export configuration screen, select the location of the sitescope 11.13/11.24 installation directory, and a target directory where you want to save exported data.
enter a backup file name.
if you want to generate reports for old data, select include log files.
d. after the export is completed, click next/finish.
e. copy the third-party libraries and jars that are used for various monitors (for example, sap client, jdbc drivers) to the temp directory, since these files are not included in the export.
4. uninstall sitescope 11.13/11.24 (start > settings >
control panel > add or remove programs): a. uninstall window launches.
click next twice and uninstall begins.
b.
after uninstall is complete, click finish.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 91 of 285 deployment guide chapter 10: upgrading sitescope c. delete any remaining files under the sitescope directory.
d. confirm that the sitescope service was removed with the uninstall from the windows services.
if the sitescope service is still displayed, it can be removed manually by running “sc delete sitescope” from command prompt.
e. reboot the server.
5. install sitescope 11.30: a. run the sitescope 11.30 installer and click next.
b. accept the license agreement and click next.
c. select a directory for sitescope 11.30, and click next.
d. select hp sitescope installation type and click next.
e. leave the default port, and then click next.
if the default port is taken, enter 8088 instead.
f. leave license blank and click next.
g. in the summary screen click next.
h. after installation is complete, click next (the installer windows closes).
i. restore third-party libraries and jars that were copied to the temp folder (in step 3).
j. stop the sitescope service.
6. download and install the latest minor-minor version (for example, 11.31) and any required intermediate patches (if available).
a. go to the hp software support web site (https://softwaresupport.hp.com) and sign in.
b. click search.
c. select the relevant product, the most recent 11.3x minor-minor version, and operating system.
d. under document type, select patches.
e. locate the installation files.
f. save the package locally and launch the relevant setup file to install the patch.
follow the hp sitescope (11.31) page 92 of 285 deployment guide chapter 10: upgrading sitescope installation instructions in the installer.
note: to install a sitescope minor-minor version using a silent installation, see "how to run a silent installation for a sitescope 11.3x minor-minor version (patch):" on page 143.
g. repeat this procedure for the latest intermediate patch (if available).
7. set the sitescope service to run under a monitoring account.
8.
import data into sitescope: a. run the configuration tool (start > programs >
hp sitescope > configuration tool) and click next.
b. select import configuration and click next.
c. in the import configuration screen, select the zip file previously exported from the 11.13/11.24 installation, verify the target directory is correct, and then click next.
d.
after import is completed, click finish (the configuration tool closes).
note: run the configuration tool a second time and select the sizing option.
e. if you want to use previously generated reports, replace the existing <sitescope>\htdoc folder with the \htdocs folder that you backed up from the previous sitescope in step 2. 9.
change parameters in the master.config file: a. open the <sitescope root>\groups\master.config file.
b. change the line _suspendmonitors= to _suspendmonitors=true.
note: if the parameter does not exist, add it so it is set to false.
c. if sitescope is connected to bsm: o change the line _topazenforceusedatareduction= to _
topazenforceusedatareduction=false.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 93 of 285 deployment guide chapter 10: upgrading sitescope o add the parameter _disablehostdnsresolution=true.
d. save and close the master.config file.
10. start the sitescope service.
sitescope upgrades the configuration and then restarts itself.
log in using the user interface and verify the integration to bsm is correct under preferences > integration settings.
11. contact your hp support renewal rep to request product contract migration.
once contract migration is completed, go to the my software updates portal (https://h20575.www2.hp.com/usbportal/softwareupdate.do) and click the get licensing tab to get the new license key(s).
when you receive the license key, open sitescope, select preferences > general preferences, expand the licenses panel, and import the new license file.
note: for license purchase inquiries (or if you require additional capacity), contact your hp sales representative or use the “contact us” link in the hp sitescope product page.
12. stop sitescope.
13. open the master.config file and perform the following: a. unsuspend monitors by changing _suspendmonitors=true to _suspendmonitors=.
b.
if sitescope is connected to bsm: o enable data reduction by changing _topazenforceusedatareduction= false to _ topazenforceusedatareduction=. o change the value of parameter _disablehostdnsresolution=false.
c. save and close the master.config file and then start sitescope.
troubleshooting and limitations this section describes troubleshooting and limitations for sitescope upgrades.
"first sitescope restart after upgrade can take a long time" on the next page "sitescope fails to get the customer id" on the next page l l hp sitescope (11.31) page 94 of 285 deployment guide chapter 10: upgrading sitescope "default alert action is named according to action type" on the next page "bsm/servicecenter or service manager integration" on the next page "sitescope fails to upgrade" on the next page "moving sitescope to a different server when integrated with bsm" on the next page l l l
l note: you can also check for other information relating to upgrading sitescope in the self-solve knowledge search.
to enter the knowledge base, you must log on with your hp passport id. first sitescope restart after upgrade can take a long time problem: the first sitescope restart after an upgrade might take a long time (more than 15 minutes).
if the monitors have not started to run after 15 minutes, sitescope restarts itself.
possible solution: to avoid sitescope restarting itself if it takes longer than 15 minutes for the monitors to run, start sitescope by running the go.bat file from the <sitescope root directory>\bin directory (on windows platforms), or by running the start command shell script using the syntax <installpath>/sitescope/start (on linux platforms).
disable any monitors that are targeting environments that are not running.
this saves time waiting for the system to reply.
sitescope fails to get the customer id problem: in versions of sitescope earlier than 9.0, when sitescope is connected to bsm, sitescope stores the customer id in a settings file under <sitescope root directory>\cache\persistent\topazconfiguration.
when loading sitescope for the first time after upgrading to 9.x, sitescope attempts to read the settings file and retrieve the bsm connection details.
if this file is corrupt (this could be caused by in correctly performing the export configuration), sitescope might not be able to get the customer id and tries to retrieve it from bsm.
if bsm is down during the restart, sitescope is unable to retrieve the customer id, and sitescope restarts itself again.
possible solution: make sure that any bsm that is connected to sitescope is up and running before starting sitescope after an upgrade.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 95 of 285 deployment guide chapter 10: upgrading sitescope default alert action is named according to action type problem: alert actions were added to sitescope 9.0.
when upgrading to any version of sitescope 9.0 or later, a default alert action is created that is named according to the action type (for example, email, pager, or sms).
this might be a problem if you want the default name to be concatenated with the alert holding the action.
possible solution: before upgrading, open the master.config file located in <sitescope root directory>\groups and change the _alertactioncompositenamedelimiter key to contain the delimiter you want to have in the concatenation.
bsm/servicecenter or service manager integration this note is relevant if you are upgrading sitescope from a pre-10.00 version and are working with the bsm/servicecenter or service manager integration.
when setting up the servicecenter monitor in sitescope, a file called peregrine.jar is created and placed in the web-inf\lib directory on the sitescope machine.
this file must be backed up before upgrading sitescope or it will be deleted during the upgrade.
after the upgrade is complete, copy the backed up peregrine.jar file back to the web- inf\lib directory.
sitescope fails to upgrade if the upgrade process fails, check the upgrade.log file located in the <sitescope root directory>\logs directory for reasons for the upgrade failure.
if the upgrade process fails when installing sitescope on a windows environment, sitescope keeps trying to perform a restart.
possible solution: perform the sitescope installation again.
moving sitescope to a different server when integrated with bsm this process is relevant if you are moving your sitescope server to new hardware (with a new host name and ip address) and you are working with the bsm integration.
perform the following steps to minimize the impact on the integration: 1. make a backup of your current sitescope installation.
for details, see "backing up sitescope configuration data" on page 88.
2. install sitescope on the new hardware, and import the sitescope configuration data to the sitescope installation directory.
for details, see "importing configuration data" on page 89.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 96 of 285 deployment guide chapter 10: upgrading sitescope 3.
configure the sitescope server with the same port number that was used on the old hardware.
4. perform the following on the bsm gateway server: note: this must be done before starting the new sitescope server.
a. open the topaz browser under <hpbsm_dir>\tools\bsmbrowser\bsmbrowser.bat (on windows) or bsmbrowser.sh (on linux), click file > topaz connect, and select the bsm management database.
b.
in the hosts table, identify the record that contains information from the old sitescope server: i. run the command: "select * from hosts" ii. write down the h_id and h_locid record that corresponds with the old sitescope server.
iii. run the command: "update hosts set h_name ='<newhostname>', h_ip='<newhostip>' where h_ id=<h_id previouslyfound>"; c. in the locations table, change the location to match the new value: i. run the command: "select * from locations where l_locid=<h_locid previouslyfoundfromhosts>" ii. run the command: "update locations set l_locname='<newhostname>' where l_locid=<h_locid previouslyfoundfromhosts>"; d. in the sessionlocations table, find the correct session_id: i. run the command: "select * from sessionlocations where sl_locid=<h_locid previouslyfoundfromhosts>" ii. write down the sl_sessionid from the record found.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 97 of 285 deployment guide chapter 10: upgrading sitescope e. in the session_sitescope_props table, modify the sitescope properties to match the new host: i. run the command: "select * from session_sitescope_props where session_id=<sl_sessionid previouslyfound>" and verify this is the correct record.
ii. run the command: "update session_sitescope_props set sitescope_host='<newhostname>', sitescope_location='<newhostname>' where session_id=<sl_sessionid previouslyfound>"; f. start the new sitescope server (make sure you do not start the old sitescope server).
hp sitescope (11.31) page 98 of 285 part 3: installing sitescope hp sitescope (11.31) page 99 of 285 chapter 11: installation workflow note: this chapter contains instructions for installing major or minor releases.
for instructions on installing a minor-minor release or intermediate patch, or upgrading from an existing version of sitescope, follow the instructions in "upgrading an existing sitescope installation" on page 86.
this chapter includes: "installation version types" below "installation flow" on the next page "installation prerequisites - linux" on page 105 "installing dependencies on an oracle enterprise linux 6.0, 6.1 environment" on page 106 "installation prerequisites - centos 6.2" on page 107 "installing sitescope on an hp cloud services instance running on centos 6.2" on page 108 "troubleshooting and limitations" on page 110 l l l l l l l installation version types sitescope is installed and run as a 64-bit application.
it is available as a self-extracting executable file and packages folder.
for major or minor releases, this file is available in the sitescope installer package (zip file).
for minor-minor and patch releases, you download this file from the software patch section on the hp software support site.
note: sitescope minor-minor and patch releases should be installed on top of standard sitescope installations only; not on non-standard installations such as sitescope failover or system health.
if you want to install the latest possible version, you need to install sitescope 11.30, then the latest minor-minor version (11.3x), then the latest intermediate patch for the minor-minor version (shown on the hp support site in the patches section for latest minor-minor version).
hp sitescope (11.31) page 100 of 285 deployment guide chapter 11: installation workflow official name version type example installation major minor full installer release 10.0, 11.0 10.10, 11.30 minor-minor (patch) collection of defect fixes from corresponding major or minor release cumulative / intermediate / public patch packages containing official fixes for urgent defects example file name: hpsitescope_11.30_ setup.exe 11.01 (on top of 11.00) 11.24 (on top of 11.20 or 11.2x) 11.31 (on top of 11.30) example file name: hpsis1131_11.31_ setup.exe
ss1122130529 ss<ver><date> example file name: ss1122130529- 11.22.000- winnt4.0.msi install on a clean system, and import previous release configuration.
upgrade is executed on first start up.
minor-minor patch is installed on top of its corresponding release.
it does not require an upgrade.
applicable only on top of a single dedicated major, minor, or minor- minor release.
installation flow this topic contains instructions for installing sitescope 11.30 only.
for instructions on installing a minor-minor release or upgrading from an existing version of sitescope, follow the instructions in "upgrading an existing sitescope installation" on page 86.
1. installation prerequisites (for linux only).
a. select a suitable installation location and set account permissions.
for details, see "installation prerequisites - linux" on page 105.
b.
if you are installing sitescope on one of the following linux platforms, you need to manually configure the environment before installing sitescope: hp sitescope (11.31) page 101 of 285 deployment guide chapter 11: installation workflow platform installation prerequisites oracle enterprise linux 6.0, 6.1 centos 6.2 hp cloud services (hpcs) instance running on a centos 6.2 operating system red hat es/as linux 6.0 see "installing dependencies on an oracle enterprise linux 6.0, 6.1 environment" on page 106.
see "installation prerequisites - centos 6.2" on page 107.
see "installing sitescope on an hp cloud services instance running on centos 6.2" on page 108.
if you plan to integrate sitescope with hpom or bsm, you need to configure dependencies on the red hat es linux 6.0 (64-bit) environment before installing the hp operations agent (the agent is required for sending events and storing metrics data to hpom or bsm).
for details on configuring the dependencies and installing the agent, see the integrating sitescope with hp operations manager products guide available in the sitescope help or on the hp software integrations site.
2. download sitescope 11.30.
a. download the platform specific installer package (sitescope_11.30_windows.zip or sitescope_11.30_linux.zip) to the machine where you want to install sitescope.
sitescope hp sitescope (11.31) page 102 of 285 deployment guide chapter 11: installation workflow is available via hp systems as follows: customer download options for evaluating customers link for electronic download evaluation hp software partner central for hp authorized software partners (the above links require hp passport accounts.
register for an hp passport at http://h20229.www2.hp.com/passport-registration.html.)
for new customers electronic software download.
customer receives a link via email where the software can be downloaded; this link is specific to the order.
for existing customer updates https://h20575.www2.hp.com/usbportal/softwareupdate.do prerequisites: i. you need an hp passport account to access the above link, and a support agreement id (said) to receive updates through the sso portal.
to register for an hp passport, see http://h20229.www2.hp.com/passport-registration.html.
for details on activating your said, see the faq on the software support online site.
ii.
a new license key is required for the software upgrade.
contact your hp support renewal rep to request product contract migration first.
once contract migration is completed, go to the my software updates portal (https://h20575.www2.hp.com/usbportal/softwareupdate.do) and click the get licensing tab to get the new license key(s).
to download software updates: i. select my software updates.
ii.
expand application performance management, select the hp sitescope 11.30 software e-media you require, and click get software updates.
iii.
in the selected products tab, click get software for the product update (s) you want, and follow the instructions on the site to download the software.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 103 of 285 deployment guide chapter 11: installation workflow b. extract the compressed file into an appropriate directory.
3. install sitescope 11.30.
install sitescope using one of the following installation options: operating system installation options windows n user interface executable (installation wizard).
for details, see "installing using the installation wizard" on page 112.
n silent installation.
for details, see "installing sitescope in silent mode" on page 141.
linux n user interface executable (installation wizard).
for details, see "installing using the installation wizard" on page 112.
n console mode installation script using command line input.
for details, see "installing on linux using console mode" on page 132.
n silent installation.
for details, see "installing sitescope in silent mode" on page 141.
note: n console mode installation is not supported for windows installations.
n if there is an existing version of sitescope installed, you must uninstall it before installing sitescope 11.30.
n if you previously exported sitescope data using the configuration tool (for details, see "using the sitescope configuration tool" on page 146), you can import the user data .zip
file.
n if you have third-party middleware and drivers, you must copy or install them manually.
4. install and configure the hp operations agent (required if integrating sitescope with hpom or bsm) hp sitescope (11.31) page 104 of 285 deployment guide chapter 11: installation workflow for details on installing and configuring the agent, see the integrating sitescope with hp operations manager products guide available in the sitescope help or on the hp software integrations site.
5. install microsoft hotfixes.
to improve sitescope scalability and performance, we recommend installing microsoft hotfixes.
for more information, see "install microsoft hotfixes" on page 229.
6. connect to sitescope.
for details, see "connecting to sitescope" on page 233.
installation prerequisites - linux before installing sitescope on an oracle enterprise linux platform, you need to perform the following: l verify that the installation location for the sitescope application (/opt/hp/sitescope) has at least 2.5 gb of free disk space for the installation and operation of sitescope.
in addition, the linux installer requires full access to the default temporary directory (the /tmp directory).
if this directory is restricted in any way (for example because of security requirements), you should choose a different temporary directory with full access before running the installer.
you can change this directory by running the command: export iatempdir=/new/tmp/dir export _java_options=-djava.io.tmpdir=/new/tmp/dir where /new/tmp/dir is the new installer's working directory.
l create a non-root user account that runs the sitescope application, and set account permissions to /opt/hp/sitescope for this user.
set the default shell for the account.
for details, see "configuring a non-root user account with permissions to run sitescope" on page 48.
l if installing sitescope on an oracle enterprise linux 6.0 or 6.1 environment, install the dependencies as described in "installing dependencies on an oracle enterprise linux 6.0, 6.1 environment" on the next page.
note: hp sitescope (11.31) page 105 of 285 deployment guide chapter 11: installation workflow
l
the linux installation directory cannot be changed during installation, and it is not recommended to change it after installation is complete.
l while sitescope requires highly privileged account permissions to enable the full range of server monitoring, it is recommended not to run sitescope from the root account and not to configure sitescope to use the root account to access remote servers.
l you can also install sitescope using a silent installation.
for details, see "installing sitescope in silent mode" on page 141.
tips for installing sitescope on an oracle enterprise linux 7 platform: check the hostname of the oracle enterprise linux 7 server and make sure that the host is resolved.
1. get your hostname by running the hostname command.
2. run ping <fqdn>.
if the ping request is successful, the host is already resolvable.
3. if that failed, then find your ip using ifconfig.
4. run echo "<ip address> <fqdn> <shortname>"
>> /etc/hosts to add a string with an ip corresponding to your hostname to the hosts file.
5. run ping <fqdn> again and make sure that the host is resolved.
if the hostname does not resolve, this might be the reason that sitescope does not start.
installing dependencies on an oracle enterprise linux 6.0, 6.1 environment before sitescope can be installed on oracle enterprise linux 6.0 or 6.1, the following dependencies must be installed on the environment: l glibc-2.12-1.25.el6.i686.rpm l glibc-common-2.12-1.25.el6.i686.rpm l nss-softokn-freebl-3.12.9-3.el6.i686.rpm hp sitescope (11.31) page 106 of 285 deployment guide chapter 11: installation workflow libxau-1.0.5-1.el6.i686.rpm libxcb-1.5-1.el6.i686.rpm libx11-1.3-2.el6.i686.rpm l l l you can install the dependencies, using the yum package manager provided in oracle enterprise linux, by running the command: yum install -y glibc glibc-common nss-softokn-freebl libxau libxcb libx11 libxext these dependencies can be found in the default repositories (/etc/yum.repos.d) for all red hat-based systems.
installation prerequisites - centos 6.2 before installing sitescope on centos 6.2 (64-bit), make sure that one of the following additional libraries is installed on the linux environment (we recommend using the first option): install glibc.i686 and libxp.i686 libraries by executing the command: l
[root@centos ~]# yum install glibc.i686 libxp.i686 l check that any jre is installed and that paths to it are written correctly: [root@centos ~]# java -version java version "1.6.0_22" openjdk runtime environment (icedtea6 1.10.6) (rhel-1.43.1.10.6.el6_2-x86_64)
openjdk 64-bit server vm (build 20.0-b11, mixed mode) if you get a "command not found" error, a jre should be installed.
use the following command for this: root@centos ~]# yum install java-1.6.0-openjdk note: usually centos installation has all the libraries already installed.
in this case, the installer uses glibc.i686 as soon as jre depends on glibc and libxp.
since sitescope has its own java, the jre is required for running the installer only.
tips for installing sitescope on a centos 6 server: check the hostname of the centos 6.2 server and make sure that the host is resolved.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 107 of 285 deployment guide chapter 11: installation workflow
1. get your hostname by running the hostname command.
2. run ping <your_hostname>.
if the ping request is successful, the host is already resolvable.
3. if that failed, then find your ip using ifconfig.
4. run echo "<your_ip> <your_hostname>" >> /etc/hosts to add a string with an ip corresponding to your hostname to the hosts file.
5. run ping <your_hostname> again and make sure that the host is resolved.
if the hostname does not resolve, this might be the reason that sitescope does not start.
installing sitescope on an hp cloud services instance running on centos 6.2 sitescope is supported on an hp cloud services (hpcs) instance running on a centos 6.2 operating system.
tips for installing sitescope on hpcs: 1. check the hostname of the hp cloud services server and make sure that the host is resolved.
a. get your hostname by running the hostname command.
b. run ping <your_hostname>.
if the ping request is successful, the host is already resolvable.
c. if that failed, then find your ip using ifconfig.
d. run echo "<your_ip> <your_hostname>" >> /etc/hosts to add a string with an ip corresponding to your hostname to the hosts file.
e. run ping <your_hostname> again and make sure that the host is resolved.
2. check the swap size.
a. run the free command and make sure that the swap is created.
b.
if you see that the swap is absent: [root@centos ~]# free | grep swap swap: 0 0 0
hp sitescope (11.31) page 108 of 285 deployment guide chapter 11: installation workflow run the following commands: create a 2 gb file: [root@centos ~]# dd if=/dev/zero of=/swapfile bs=1m count=2048 initialize it as the swap: [root@centos ~]# mkswap /swapfile
enable it: [root@centos ~]# swapon /swapfile c. check the swap again: root@centos ~]# free | grep swap swap: 2097144 0
2097144 3. install additional libraries.
for details, see "installation prerequisites - centos 6.2" on page 107.
security group configuration ip protocol from port to port type cidr ips tcp tcp tcp icmp 8080 22 8888 -1 8080 22 8888 -1 ips ips ips ips
0.0.0.0/0 0.0.0.0/0 0.0.0.0/0 0.0.0.0/0 installing sitescope on hpcs to install sitescope on hpcs: 1. change the current directory to the location where the sitescope installer is located, and run the sitescope installer:
[root@centos ~]# sh ./hpsitescope_11.30_setup.bin
-i
console 2.
install sitescope using the console mode.
for details, see "installing on linux using console hp sitescope (11.31) page 109 of 285 deployment guide chapter 11: installation workflow mode" on page 132.
3. after installation is finished run sitescope: [root@centos ~]# /opt/hp/sitescope/start 4.
wait for a couple of minutes until the sitescope service is started, and then check that the necessary processes are running: [root@centos ~]# ps -ef | grep sitescope | grep -v grep |awk '{print $3} '84758477 the last command shows the process ids of the sitescope processes.
if there are two processes, the sitescope server has started successfully.
notes and limitations the operations manager integration is currently not supported in sitescope 11.30 installed on a centos 6.2 server.
troubleshooting and limitations this section describes the following troubleshooting and limitations for installing sitescope.
"sitescope might not install on linux using console mode" below "error installing the hp operations agent - check the log files" below "after uninstalling sitescope, a subsequent sitescope installation fails" on the next page l l l sitescope might not install on linux using console mode [installing sitescope on linux red hat environments using console mode may fail if there are too many x sessions opened.
workaround: close some of the x sessions, or clear the display variable.
error installing the hp operations agent - check the log files if you encounter an error while installing the hp operations agent or you want to see the installation status, you can check the log files: hp sitescope (11.31) page 110 of 285 deployment guide chapter 11: installation workflow l sitescope log.
this just shows whether the installation passed successfully or not.
log file name: hpsitescope_config_tool.log log file location: n
win-
%temp% on windows platforms n /temp or /var/temp on unix/linux platforms (search for results of "installoatask") l hp operations agent log files.
log file name: oainstall.log, oapatch.log log file location: n %ovdatadir%\log on windows platforms n /var/opt/ov/log/ on unix/linux platforms after uninstalling sitescope, a subsequent sitescope installation fails after uninstalling sitescope, a subsequent installation cannot be completed and the following message is displayed: "please enable windows scripting host".
this occurs because windows is unable to resolve the %systemroot% variable in the path environment variable (even though %systemroot% does appear in the path).
workaround: replace the %systemroot% variable in the path environment variable with the actual path to c:\windows\system32.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 111 of 285 chapter 12: installing using the installation wizard use the following steps to install sitescope on supported windows or linux environments using the installation wizard.
for the list of supported environments, see "system requirements" on page 70.
the installation wizard automatically executes if x11 libraries have already been installed on the server.
if these libraries are not installed, you can either: l l install sitescope in graphic mode on a machine without an x11 server.
for details, see "installing sitescope using the installation wizard on a machine without x11 server" on page 131.
install sitescope on linux platforms in console mode.
for details, see "installing on linux using console mode" on page 132.
note: l you can also install sitescope using a silent installation.
for details, see "installing sitescope in silent mode" on page 141.
l if you are planning on upgrading an existing version of sitescope, follow the procedures in "upgrading an existing sitescope installation" on page 86.
l the option to install the hp operations agent directly from within sitescope was removed from the configuration wizard and the configuration tool.
instead, you must manually install and configure the agent.
the agent is required for sending events and storing metrics data if sitescope is integrated with hpom or bsm (except when graphing metrics data to performance graphing using the profile database in bsm).
for details on installing and configuring the agent, see the integrating sitescope with hp operations manager products guide available in the sitescope help or on the hp software integrations site.
to install sitescope: 1. obtain the sitescope installation package.
a. download the platform specific installer package (sitescope_11.30_windows.zip or sitescope_11.30_linux.zip) to the machine where you want to install sitescope.
sitescope hp sitescope (11.31) page 112 of 285 deployment guide chapter 12: installing using the installation wizard is available via hp systems as follows: customer download options for evaluating customers link for electronic download evaluation hp software partner central for hp authorized software partners note: the above links require hp passport accounts.
register for an hp passport at http://h20229.www2.hp.com/passport-registration.html.
for new customers electronic software download.
customer receives a link via email where the software can be downloaded; this link is specific to the order.
for existing customer updates https://h20575.www2.hp.com/usbportal/softwareupdate.do prerequisites: i. you need an hp passport account to access the above link, and a support agreement id (said) to receive updates through the sso portal.
to register for an hp passport, see http://h20229.www2.hp.com/passport-registration.html.
for details on activating your said, see the faq on the software support online site.
ii.
a new license key is required for the software upgrade.
contact your hp support renewal rep to request product contract migration first.
once contract migration is completed, go to the my software updates portal (https://h20575.www2.hp.com/usbportal/softwareupdate.do) and click the get licensing tab to get the new license key(s).
to download software updates: i. select my software updates.
ii.
expand application performance management, select the hp sitescope 11.30 software e-media you require, and click get software updates.
iii.
in the selected products tab, click get software for the product update (s) you want, and follow the instructions on the site to download the software.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 113 of 285 deployment guide chapter 12: installing using the installation wizard b.
extract the compressed file into an appropriate directory.
2. run the sitescope installation according to your operating system.
note that sitescope is installed and run as a 64-bit application only.
for windows: a. run hpsitescope_11.30_setup.exe.
b. enter the location from which you are installing sitescope according to your operating system and architecture, followed by the executable name.
for example: <sitescope_installation>\hpsitescope_11.30_setup.exe for linux: a. log in to the server as user root.
b. run the installer by entering: ./hpsitescope_11.30_setup.bin.
note: if your server has microsoft terminal server service running, the service must be in install mode when you install sitescope.
if the service is not in the correct mode, the wizard gives you an error message and then exits the installation.
change to install mode using the change user command.
for details, refer to the microsoft support site (http://support.microsoft.com/kb/320185).
3.
the choose locale screen is displayed.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 114 of 285 deployment guide chapter 12: installing using the installation wizard select a language for installing sitescope from the languages listed.
the installer shows a different set of languages depending on the os locale.
for the list of languages supported in the sitescope user interface, see the internationalization in sitescope section of the using sitescope guide.
click ok to continue with the installation.
the initialization screen is displayed.
if the installer detects any anti-virus program running on your system, it prompts you to examine the warnings before you continue with the installation.
4. read the warnings, if any, that appear in the application requirement check warnings screen and follow the instructions as described in the screen.
if the installer detects an anti-virus program you can try installing sitescope without disabling the anti-virus program.
click continue to continue with the installation.
5. in the introduction (install) screen that opens, click next.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 115 of 285 deployment guide chapter 12: installing using the installation wizard 6.
the license agreement screen opens.
read the sitescope license agreement.
to install sitescope, select i accept the terms of the license agreement, and then click next.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 116 of 285 deployment guide chapter 12: installing using the installation wizard 7.
in the product customization screen, select the sitescope setup type.
n hp sitescope.
this is the standard sitescope installation.
n hp sitescope failover.
this installation provides a backup for monitoring infrastructure availability if a primary sitescope server fails.
n hp sitescope for load testing.
this setup type is used with an hp loadrunner or hp performance center installation only.
it enables users to define and use sitescope monitors on a loadrunner or performance center application.
sitescope provides additional monitoring that complements the native loadrunner and performance center monitors.
for more details, see the relevant loadrunner or performance center documentation.
note: this installation option is not available when installing on linux platforms.
click next to continue.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 117 of 285 deployment guide chapter 12: installing using the installation wizard 8.
in the feature selection screen, click next.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 118 of 285 deployment guide chapter 12: installing using the installation wizard 9.
if installing on linux platforms, sitescope is automatically installed in the /opt/hp/sitescope/ folder.
skip to step 10.
the choose the folders screen opens.
accept the default directory location, or click browse to select another directory.
if you select another directory, the installation path must not contain spaces or non-latin characters in its name, and must end with a folder named sitescope (the folder name is case sensitive).
to restore the default installation path, click reset.
click next to continue.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 119 of 285 deployment guide chapter 12: installing using the installation wizard 10.
the install checks screen opens and runs verification checks.
click next after the free disk space verification completes successfully.
if the free disk space verification is not successful, do the following: n free disk space, for example by using the windows disk cleanup utility.
n repeat steps 9 and 10.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 120 of 285 deployment guide chapter 12: installing using the installation wizard 11.
in the pre-install summary screen, click install.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 121 of 285 deployment guide chapter 12: installing using the installation wizard 12.
the installing screen opens and the installer selects and installs the required sitescope software components.
each software component and its installation progress is displayed on your screen during installation.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 122 of 285 deployment guide chapter 12: installing using the installation wizard 13.
after installing the sitescope components, the introduction screen of the sitescope configuration wizard opens.
click next.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 123 of 285 deployment guide chapter 12: installing using the installation wizard 14.
the settings screen of the sitescope configuration wizard opens.
enter the required configuration information and click next: n port.
the sitescope port number.
if the port number is already in use (an error message is displayed), enter a different port.
if necessary, you can change the port later using the configuration tool.
the default port is 8080.
n license file.
enter the path to the license file, or click select and select the sitescope license key file.
it is not necessary to enter license information at this point, since the sitescope community edition license is activated automatically after a regular sitescope installation.
to extend sitescope functionality beyond the limited features included in community edition, you need to purchase a commercial edition license (see "upgrading the sitescope edition license" on page 35).
hp sitescope (11.31) page 124 of 285 deployment guide chapter 12: installing using the installation wizard n use local system account (not applicable for linux installations).
by default, sitescope is installed to run as a local system account.
this account has extensive privileges on the local computer, and has access to most system objects.
when sitescope is running under a local system account, it attempts to connect to remote servers using credentials of the server as configured in sitescope.
note: we recommend setting the sitescope service to log on as a user with domain administration privileges since the local system account may not have sufficient privileges (the local system account has domain administrator user privileges in a domain environment, and build-in administrator user privileges in a non-domain environment).
n use this account (not applicable for linux installations).
select to change the user account of the sitescope service.
you can set the sitescope service to log on as a user with domain administration privileges.
this gives sitescope access privileges to monitor server data within the domain.
enter an account and password (and confirm the password) that can access the remote servers.
note: when sitescope is installed to run as a custom user account, the account used must have log on as a service rights.
to grant a user logon service access: i. in windows control panel, double-click administrative tools.
ii.
double-click local security policy, and select local policies > user rights assignment > log on as a service.
iii.
click add user or group, and select the user you want to grant logon service access to, and click ok. iv.
click ok to save the updated policy.
n service name (not applicable for linux installations).
the name of the sitescope service.
if the machine has a previous version of sitescope installed, enter another name for the sitescope service.
the default service name is sitescope.
n start sitescope service after install (not applicable for linux installations).
automatically starts the sitescope service after the installation is complete.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 125 of 285 deployment guide chapter 12: installing using the installation wizard 15.
the import configuration screen opens, enabling you to import existing sitescope configuration data to the new sitescope installation.
select one of the following options and click next: n do not import configuration data.
n use existing exported configuration file.
enables you to use sitescope data such as templates, logs, monitor configuration files, and so forth, from an existing exported configuration file.
sitescope data is exported using the configuration tool, and is saved in .zip format.
click the select button and navigate to the user data file that you want to import.
n import from the following sitescope installation.
click the select button and navigate to the sitescope installation folder from which you want to import configuration data.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 126 of 285 deployment guide chapter 12: installing using the installation wizard o include log files.
enables you to import log files from the selected sitescope installation folder.
n if sitescope was configured to run using key managed encryption, enter the passphrase for the sitescope server keystore in the passphrase box.
confirm the passphrase in the match passphrase box.
for details, see "configuring sitescope to use a custom key for data encryption" on page 201.
these boxes are disabled when the default sitescope encryption is used.
note: n when moving configuration data from one sitescope installation to another, make sure that sitescope server from which you are taking configuration data is in the same time zone as the sitescope server to which the data is being imported.
n if the imported configuration contains expired certificates, they will be merged inside the default sitescope keystore on configuration import.
this can result in the ssl certificate monitor being in error state.
to avoid this, you should delete any expired certificates before exporting configuration data.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 127 of 285 deployment guide chapter 12: installing using the installation wizard 16.
the summary screen opens.
check that the information is correct and click next to continue, or back to return to previous screens to change your selections.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 128 of 285 deployment guide chapter 12: installing using the installation wizard 17.
the done screen opens.
to access the sitescope user interface, click the connection address for this installation of sitescope.
note: if you did not select start sitescope service after install in the configuration settings screen, you need to start the sitescope service before you can connect to sitescope.
for details, see "getting started with sitescope" on page 230.
click finish to close the sitescope configuration wizard.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 129 of 285 deployment guide chapter 12: installing using the installation wizard 18.
when the installation finishes, the installation complete window opens displaying a summary of the installation paths used and the installation status.
if the installation was not successful, review the installation log file for any errors by clicking the view log file link in the installation complete window to view the log file in a web browser.
for more information about the installed packages, click the details tab.
click done to close the installation program.
if the installation program determines that the server must be restarted, it prompts you to restart the server.
19.
for the latest available functionality, download and install the latest sitescope patch (if available) from the same location from which you installed sitescope.
for information on accessing the sitescope interface, see "connecting to sitescope" on page 233.
20.
after installing sitescope on a linux environment, set the permissions for the sitescope installation directory to have read, write, and execute permissions for the user account that is used to run the sitescope application.
the permissions must also be set for all subdirectories within the sitescope installation directory.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 130 of 285 deployment guide chapter 12: installing using the installation wizard installing sitescope using the installation wizard on a machine without x11 server you can install sitescope using the installation wizard on a machine that does not have an x11 server either by: l using a vnc server (on many linux systems, a vnc server is installed by default).
l editing the display environment variable to make the programs use x server on another machine.
to install sitescope on a machine without x11 using a vnc server: 1. in command line, run vncserver.
if it runs, select a password and note the display that the vnc server uses (usually :1).
2. connect to your sitescope machine using vnc client using the format: hostname:display.
for example, sitescope.company.name:1 3.
in the console that opens, navigate to the sitescope installation directory and run the installation as usual.
to install sitescope on a machine without x11 by redirecting x: 1. run any linux system with an x server, or install an x server on windows (for example, xming).
2. check that x access control permits your sitescope machine to connect.
on linux platforms, consult man xhost.
on windows platforms, see the documentation for x server implementation.
3. run export display=x-server.machine.name:display on your sitescope machine (display is usually 0).
4. navigate to the sitescope installation directory in the same shell, and run the installation as usual.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 131 of 285 chapter 13: installing on linux using console mode you can install sitescope on linux using a command line or console mode.
use this option if you are installing sitescope on a remote server, or for any other reason that prevents the use of the installation option using the user interface.
note: the option to install the hp operations agent was removed from sitescope console mode.
instead, you must manually install and configure the agent.
the agent is required for sending events and storing metrics data if sitescope is integrated with hpom or bsm (except when graphing metrics data to performance graphing using the profile database in bsm).
for details on installing and configuring the agent, see the integrating sitescope with hp operations manager products guide available in the sitescope help or on the hp software integrations site.
to install sitescope on linux using the console mode: 1. download the installer package (sitescope_11.30_linux.zip) to the machine where you want to install sitescope.
alternatively, copy the sitescope setup file to a disk or network location where it is accessible to the user account that is to be used to install sitescope.
sitescope is available via hp systems as follows: customer download options for evaluating customers link for electronic download evaluation hp software partner central for hp authorized software partners (the above links require hp passport accounts.
register for an hp passport at http://h20229.www2.hp.com/passport-registration.html.)
for new customers electronic software download.
customer receives a link via email where the software can be downloaded; this link is specific to the order.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 132 of 285 deployment guide chapter 13: installing on linux using console mode customer download options for existing customer updates https://h20575.www2.hp.com/usbportal/softwareupdate.do prerequisites: a. you need an hp passport account to access the above link, and a support agreement id (said) to receive updates through the sso portal.
to register for an hp passport, see http://h20229.www2.hp.com/passport- registration.html.
for details on activating your said, see the faq on the software support online site.
b.
a new license key is required for the software upgrade.
contact your hp support renewal rep to request product contract migration first.
once contract migration is completed, go to the my software updates portal (https://h20575.www2.hp.com/usbportal/softwareupdate.do) and click the get licensing tab to get the new license key(s).
to download software updates: a. select my software updates.
b. expand application performance management, select the hp sitescope 11.30 software e-media you require, and click get software updates.
c. in the selected products tab, click get software for the product update(s) you want, and follow the instructions on the site to download the software.
2. run the following command: hpsitescope_11.30_setup.bin -i console the installation script initializes the java virtual machine to begin the installation.
3. the choose locale screen is displayed.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 133 of 285 deployment guide chapter 13: installing on linux using console mode enter the number to select the desired locale, and press enter to continue.
4. a confirmation screen is displayed.
press enter to continue.
5.
the introduction screen is displayed.
press enter to continue with the installation.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 134 of 285 deployment guide chapter 13: installing on linux using console mode 6.
the text of the license agreement is displayed.
the sitescope license agreement requires several pages to display.
read each page as it is presented.
press enter to continue to the next page.
when you have viewed all the pages of the license agreement, you have the option to accept or not accept the license agreement.
to install sitescope, you must accept the terms of the license agreement.
the default selection is to not accept the agreement.
to accept the license agreement and continue the installation, enter y. note: to cancel the installation after viewing the sitescope license agreement, enter n. 7.
the sitescope setup type screen opens.
choose the type that is suitable for your site.
enter the number of the setup type, and then press enter to continue.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 135 of 285 deployment guide chapter 13: installing on linux using console mode 8.
the select features screen opens.
enter the number 1 (required) to install sitescope.
press enter to continue with the installation.
9.
the install requirements screen opens.
press enter to continue with the installation.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 136 of 285 deployment guide chapter 13: installing on linux using console mode 10.
the pre-installation summary screen opens.
press enter to continue with the installation.
11.
the install features screen opens and the installation process starts.
when the installation process is complete, the post-installation configuration screen opens.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 137 of 285 deployment guide chapter 13: installing on linux using console mode 12.
the port prompt is displayed.
enter the number 1 to accept the default port 8080, or enter number 2 to change the port, and then enter a different number in the change port prompt.
press enter to continue with the installation.
13.
the license file path prompt is displayed.
enter the number 1 to leave the license file path empty (it is not necessary to enter license information at this point to use sitescope since the sitescope community edition license is activated automatically after a regular sitescope installation), or enter the number 2, and then enter the license file path in the next text box.
press enter to continue with the installation.
14.
the import configuration data screen opens.
enter the number 1 if you do not want to import data.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 138 of 285 deployment guide chapter 13: installing on linux using console mode enter the number 2 to use sitescope data such as templates, logs, monitor configuration files, and so forth, from an existing exported configuration file.
if you select this option, enter the path to the configuration file in the next text box.
enter the number 3 to import configuration data from a sitescope installation directory.
if you select this option, enter the path to the sitescope installation folder from which you want to import configuration data.
if sitescope was configured to run using key management data encryption, when prompted, enter the passphrase for the sitescope server keystore, and confirm the passphrase by entering it again.
for details, see "configuring sitescope to use a custom key for data encryption" on page 201.
press enter to continue with the installation.
note: n when moving configuration data from one sitescope installation to another, make sure that sitescope server from which you are taking configuration data is in the same time zone as the sitescope server to which the data is being imported.
n if the imported configuration contains expired certificates, they will be merged inside the default sitescope keystore on configuration import.
this can result in the ssl certificate monitor being in error state.
to avoid this, you should delete any expired certificates before exporting configuration data.
15.
the console displays the installation parameters for confirmation.
enter 1 to proceed with the installation using the parameters indicated or enter 2 to return to make changes, and then press enter.
the installation process completes.
an installation status message is displayed.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 139 of 285 deployment guide chapter 13: installing on linux using console mode 16.
after installing sitescope, set the permissions for the sitescope installation directory to have read, write, and execute permissions for the user account that is used to run the sitescope application.
the permissions must also be set for all subdirectories within the sitescope installation directory.
for details on creating a non-root user that runs the sitescope application, and setting account permissions, see "configuring a non-root user account with permissions to run sitescope" on page 48.
17.
to connect to sitescope, follow the steps in the section "starting and stopping the sitescope process on linux platforms" on page 231.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 140 of 285 chapter 14: installing sitescope in silent mode this chapter includes: "about installing sitescope in silent mode" below "running a silent installation" on the next page "uninstalling sitescope in silent mode" on page 144 l l l about installing sitescope in silent mode you can install sitescope using a silent installation.
a silent installation runs the entire setup process in the background without requiring you to navigate through the setup screens and input your selections.
instead, all configuration parameters are allocated values you define in a response file.
to run silent installations for different configurations, you can create multiple response files.
notes and limitations before running a silent installation, consider the following issues: l when running an installation in silent mode, no messages are displayed.
instead, you can view installation information in the log files, including information on whether the installation was successful.
the installation log files can be found under:
n %tmp%\hpovinstaller\hpsitescope_11.30 on windows platforms n /tmp/hpovinstaller/hpsitescope_11.30 on linux platforms for sitescope 11.31, the log files can be found under the default temporary directory and is named hpsis1131_11.31_hpovinstaller.txt.
l the sitescope installation path (prodinstalldir=<installation_path>) must not contain spaces or non-latin characters in its name, and must end with a folder named sitescope (the folder name is case sensitive).
l the option to install the hp operations agent directly from within sitescope was removed.
instead, you must manually install and configure the agent.
the agent is required for sending events and storing metrics data if sitescope is integrated with hpom or bsm(except when graphing metrics data to performance graphing using the profile database in bsm).
for details on installing and hp sitescope (11.31) page 141 of 285 deployment guide chapter 14: installing sitescope in silent mode configuring the agent, see the integrating sitescope with hp operations manager products guide available in the sitescope help or on the hp software integrations site.
running a silent installation you run a silent installation using the ovinstallparams.ini file.
for a first-time sitescope installation, you need to create this ini file manually.
if you have already installed sitescope, a sample ovinstallparams.ini file is available from the <sitescope installation directory>\examples\silent_ installation folder.
how to create the ovinstallparams.ini file manually: 1. create a text file, and save it with an ini suffix.
2. copy the following text to the file, and customize it as necessary: hpsitescope_11.30_setup.bin -i silent (unix) #======================================================================================== #= sample ovinstallparams.ini file #= to install sitescope in non-interactive (silent) mode, edit this file according #= to your needs and place it in the same folder where hpsitescope_11.30_setup.exe file and #= "packages" folder are.
#= #= for silent installation, run the installer with "-i silent" flag #= example: hpsitescope_11.30_setup.exe -i silent (windows) #= #= #= note: we do not recommend changing the installer properties parameters that follow.
======================================================================================== [installer.properties] setup=hpsitescope licenseagreement=true #========================================================================================= #= the following 2 keys specify the installation flavor: #= #= 1) for standard (standalone) hp sitescope installation: #= group=standalone #= customfeatureselected=standalonefeature #= 2) for hp sitescope failover installation: #= group=failover #= customfeatureselected=hafeature #= 3) for hp system health installation: #= group=systemhealth #= customfeatureselected=systemhealthfeature #= 4) for hp sitescope for loadrunner installation (on windows only) #= group=loadrunner #= customfeatureselected=loadrunnerfeature #========================================================================================= group=standalone customfeatureselected=standalonefeature #========================================================================================= #= [windows only] installation folder.
the path cannot contain spaces and must end with #= #= "sitescope".
note: on unix systems, sitescope installation folder is set to "/opt/hp/sitescope" and cannot be changed hp sitescope (11.31) page 142 of 285 deployment guide chapter 14: installing sitescope in silent mode after installation ends #========================================================================================= prodinstalldir=c:\silent\sitescope\ #========================================================================================= #= [windows only] the name of sitescope service #========================================================================================= servicename=sitescopeservice #========================================================================================= #= [windows only].
specifies whether sitescope service would be started automatically #= #= accepted values: [ yes | no ]
#========================================================================================= startservice=yes #========================================================================================= #= specifies the path to license file #========================================================================================= licensefile=c:\sitescopelicenses.txt #========================================================================================= #=sitescope user interface port #========================================================================================= port=8080 #========================================================================================= #= specifies whether existing configuration would be imported from and existing #= configuration file or sitescope installation #= accepted values: [ import_from_file | import_from_folder | no_import] #========================================================================================= importmode=import_from_file #========================================================================================= #= full path to sitescope configuration file or sitescope installation #= valid only if importmode=import_from_file or importmode=import_from_folder #========================================================================================= importfilename=c:\sitescope.zip how to run a silent installation for sitescope 11.30: 1. navigate to the ovinstallparams.ini file.
2. copy the file to the setup folder where the sitescope installation file (hpsitescope_11.30_ setup.exe or hpsitescope_11.30_setup.bin) is located.
3. run the installer from the command line with the -i silent flag.
in windows, specify wait mode.
for example: start /wait
hpsitescope_11.30_setup.exe -i silent (windows)
./hpsitescope_11.30_setup.bin
-i silent (linux) how to run a silent installation for a sitescope 11.3x minor-minor version (patch): note: if you are installing sitescope 11.31 on windows after having installed sitescope 11.30 using the silent install option, you must open a new cmd for the sitescope 11.31 installation.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 143 of 285 deployment guide chapter 14: installing sitescope in silent mode run the installer from the command line with -i silent flag.
(the ovinstallparams.ini (answers) file is not required, unlike in a regular installation.)
for example, to install sitescope 11.31 in silent mode, run the command: l for windows, run the command: hpsis11.31_setup.exe
-i silent l for linux, run the command: hpsis11.31_setup.bin -i silent uninstalling sitescope in silent mode how to uninstall sitescope 11.30 (and all minor-minor or patch versions) in silent mode: 1. stop the sitescope service.
2. run the command: n for windows: %sitescopehome%/installation/bin/uninstall.bat -i silent n for linux: /opt/hp/sitescope/installation/bin/uninstall.sh -i silent how to uninstall sitescope 11.31 (and all sitescope 11.31 patches) in silent mode: 1. stop the sitescope service.
2. run the command: n for windows: %sitescopehome%/installation/hpsis1131/bin/uninstall.bat -i silent n for linux: /opt/hp/sitescope/installation/hpsis1131/bin/uninstall.sh -i silent hp sitescope (11.31) page 144 of 285 deployment guide chapter 14: installing sitescope in silent mode how to uninstall any sitescope 11.3x minor-minor patch in silent mode: 1. stop the sitescope service.
2. run the command: n for windows: %sitescopehome%/installation/<sismmr_patch_name>/bin/uninstall.bat -i silent n for linux: /opt/hp/sitescope/installation/<sismmr_patch _
name>/bin/uninstall.sh -i silent hp sitescope (11.31) page 145 of 285 chapter 15: using the sitescope configuration tool this chapter includes: "running the configuration tool on windows platforms" below "running the configuration tool on linux platforms" on page 154 "running the configuration tool using console mode" on page 160 "running the configuration tool in silent mode" on page 167 l l l l running the configuration tool on windows platforms the configuration tool is a convenient utility for moving configuration data from one sitescope installation to another.
you can export sitescope data such as templates, logs, monitor configuration files, scripts, server certificates, and so forth from your current sitescope for later import into sitescope.
you can also use the wizard to optimize sitescope’s performance by making sizing changes in the windows registry keys, to change the ports assigned to sitescope, and to complete the installation of the hp operations agent.
if you exported sitescope data during the installation process, you can import the data using the configuration tool.
alternatively, you can export data from your current sitescope independently using the configuration tool.
if you have created or modified monitor configuration files in previous versions of sitescope, you may need to import them to the current sitescope directory.
note: l you can also run the configuration tool on windows platforms in console mode.
for details, see "running the configuration tool using console mode" on page 160.
l the option to install and uninstall the hp operations agent directly from within sitescope was removed from the configuration tool.
instead, you must manually install and configure the agent.
the agent is required for sending events and storing metrics data if sitescope is integrated with hpom or bsm (except when graphing metrics data to performance graphing using the profile database in bsm).
for details on installing and configuring the agent, see the integrating sitescope with hp operations manager products guide available in the sitescope help or on the hp software integrations site.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 146 of 285 deployment guide chapter 15: using the sitescope configuration tool l you must stop the sitescope service before exporting or importing the data, and restart the service after exporting or importing the data.
for details, see "starting and stopping the sitescope service on windows platform" on page 230.
l when importing configurations to the same version of sitescope, you must rename or delete all template example containers so as to import the new template examples.
l when moving configuration data from one sitescope installation to another, make sure that the sitescope server from which you are taking configuration data is in the same time zone as the sitescope server to which the data is being imported.
l when importing configurations with monitors deployed from monitor deployment wizard templates or template examples, you must rename the templates on the source sitescope before exporting the configuration, or rename or delete the templates on the destination sitescope.
l if the imported configuration contains expired certificates, they will be merged inside the default sitescope keystore on configuration import.
this can result in the ssl certificate monitor being in error state.
to avoid this, you should delete any expired certificates before exporting configuration data.
l files from the following folders cannot be overridden when importing configuration data: templates.os, templates.post, templates.health, templates.applications, and conf\ems.
l the inclusion of server certificates and scripts when exporting data is supported in the configuration tool.
for details on how to include server certificates and scripts when exporting data from earlier versions of sitescope, see "upgrading an existing sitescope installation" on page 86.
to run the sitescope configuration tool: 1. on the sitescope server, select start > all programs >
hp sitescope > configuration tool.
the sitescope configuration wizard opens.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 147 of 285 deployment guide chapter 15: using the sitescope configuration tool 2.
select the actions that you want to perform, and then click next.
n sizing.
enables optimizing sitescope’s performance by increasing jvm heap size, desktop heap size, and the number of file handles in the windows registry keys.
for details, see step 3.
note: if you start sitescope by running the go.bat file in the <sitescope installation>\bin directory, open the go.bat file and increase the –xmx1024m parameter, as required, up to a maximum of –xmx8192m (for 8gb).
n change ports.
enables changing any of the ports used by the sitescope server.
for details, see step 4. n import configuration.
enables importing configuration data from an exported configuration data (.zip) file, or from an existing sitescope installation.
for details, see step 5. n export configuration.
enables exporting sitescope data such as templates, logs, and monitor configuration files from your current sitescope for later import into sitescope.
for details, see step 6.
n configure hp operations agent installed separately.
required to complete the installation of the hp operations agent.
the agent enables sitescope or sitescope failover to send events and act as a data storage for metrics data when sitescope is integrated with an hp operations manager or bsm gateway server.
for details, see step 7.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 148 of 285 deployment guide chapter 15: using the sitescope configuration tool note: this option is disabled if hp operations agent 11.14 has not been installed on the sitescope server.
for details on installing and configuring the agent, see the integrating sitescope with hp operations manager products guide available in the sitescope help or on the hp software integrations site.
3. if you selected the sizing option, the sizing screen opens listing the parameters in the windows registry.
you can optimize sitescope’s performance by making changes in the following windows registry keys: n jvm heap size.
the value is changed from 512 mb to 4096 mb.
for more details on jvm heap size, refer to http://docs.oracle.com/javase/1.5.0/docs/guide/vm/gc-ergonomics.html.
n desktop heap size.
the value is changed from 512 kb to 8192 kb.
for more details on desktop heap size, refer to http://support.microsoft.com/kb/126962.
note: sizing changes can be made only if the physical memory of the sitescope server is larger than the maximum jvm heap size (xmx) that the configuration tool has configured (4 gb for a 64-bit installation).
click next to complete the sizing operation.
n file handles.the value is increased from 10,000 to 18,000 file handles.
for more details on changing file handles, refer to http://support.microsoft.com/kb/326591.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 149 of 285 deployment guide chapter 15: using the sitescope configuration tool 4.
if you selected the change ports option, the change ports screen opens.
modify the ports used by the sitescope server as required.
port numbers must be numeric and should be in the 1-65534 range.
a port is mandatory for all components except classic user interface.
note: it is recommended to use ports in the 28000-28100 range so as not to interfere with ports used by other business service management products.
click next to complete the change port operation.
note: after completing the port change operation, the port is updated in the start > all programs >
hp sitescope > open hp sitescope link.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 150 of 285 deployment guide chapter 15: using the sitescope configuration tool 5.
if you selected the import configuration option, the import configuration screen opens.
note: you must stop the sitescope service before importing the data, and restart the service after importing the data.
for details, see "starting and stopping the sitescope service on windows platform" on page 230.
n if you select use existing exported configuration file, enter the name of the user data file to import.
n if you select import the following sitescope installation, enter the sitescope installation directory from which to import the user data file.
if you also want to import log files, select include log files.
n if sitescope was configured to run using key management data encryption, enter the passphrase for the sitescope server keystore in the passphrase box.
confirm the passphrase by entering the same passphrase in the match passphrase box.
for details, see "configuring sitescope to use a custom key for data encryption" on page 201.
these boxes are disabled when the default sitescope encryption is used.
click next to complete the import operation.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 151 of 285 deployment guide chapter 15: using the sitescope configuration tool 6.
if you selected the export configuration option, the export configuration screen opens.
n in from sitescope folder, accept the default directory given in the box, or enter the full path of the sitescope installation directory.
for example, if you do not want to accept the directory path as listed and the installation directory path is d:\sitescope11_0\sitescope, enter d:\sitescope11_0\sitescope.
n in to file, enter the directory to which to export the user data file (the directory must already exist) and the name for the exported user data file.
the name must end in .zip.
if you also want to export log files, select include log files.
n if sitescope was configured to run using key managed encryption, enter the passphrase used for the sitescope server keystore in the passphrase box.
for details, see "configuring sitescope to use a custom key for data encryption" on page 201.
this box is disabled when the default sitescope encryption is used.
note: n you must stop the sitescope service before exporting the data, and restart the service after exporting the data.
for details, see "starting and stopping the sitescope service on windows platform" on page 230.
n since the \htdocs directory is not copied when you export sitescope data, you should make a backup of this directory and copy it to the sitescope 11.30 directory after an upgrade, so that you can see old reports.
click next to complete the export operation.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 152 of 285 deployment guide chapter 15: using the sitescope configuration tool 7.
if you selected the configure hp operations agent installed separately option, the configure hp operations agent screen opens.
select configure hp operations agent.
this is required to complete the installation of the hp operations agent.
the agent enables sitescope to send events and act as a data storage for metrics data when sitescope is integrated with an hp operations manager or bsm gateway server.
for details on sending events and reporting metrics data, see the integrating sitescope with hp operations manager products guide available in the sitescope help or on the hp software integrations site.
click next to complete the configuration operation.
8.
the summary screen opens, displaying the configuration status.
click finish to close the wizard.
after an upgrade, you can start sitescope by running the go.bat file from the <sitescope root directory>\bin directory.
this avoids sitescope automatically restarting itself if it takes longer than 15 minutes for the monitors to run.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 153 of 285 deployment guide chapter 15: using the sitescope configuration tool running the configuration tool on linux platforms the configuration tool is a convenient utility for moving configuration data from one sitescope installation to another.
you can export sitescope data such as templates, logs, monitor configuration files, scripts, server certificates, and so forth from your current sitescope for later import into sitescope.
you can also use the wizard to change any of the ports used by the sitescope server, and to complete the installation of the hp operations agent.
if you exported sitescope data during the installation process, you can import the data using the configuration tool.
alternatively, you can export data from your current sitescope independently using the configuration tool.
if you have created or modified monitor configuration files in previous versions of sitescope, you may need to import them to the current sitescope directory.
note: l you can also run the configuration tool on linux platforms in console mode.
for details, see "running the configuration tool using console mode" on page 160.
l the option to install and uninstall the hp operations agent directly from within sitescope was removed from the configuration tool.
instead, you must manually install and configure the agent.
the agent is required for sending events and storing metrics data if sitescope is integrated with hpom or bsm (except when graphing metrics data to performance graphing using the profile database in bsm).
for details on installing and configuring the agent, see the integrating sitescope with hp operations manager products guide available in the sitescope help or on the hp software integrations site.
l when moving configuration data from one sitescope installation to another, make sure that sitescope server from which you are taking configuration data is in the same time zone as the sitescope server to which the data is being imported.
l when importing configurations with monitors deployed from monitor deployment wizard templates or template examples, you must rename the templates on the source sitescope before exporting the configuration, or rename or delete the templates on the destination sitescope.
l if the imported configuration contains expired certificates, they will be merged inside the default sitescope keystore on configuration import.
this can result in the ssl certificate monitor being in error state.
to avoid this, you should delete any expired certificates before exporting configuration data.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 154 of 285 deployment guide chapter 15: using the sitescope configuration tool l files from the following folders cannot be overridden when importing configuration data: templates.os, templates.post, templates.health, templates.applications, and conf\ems.
l the inclusion of server certificates and scripts when exporting data is supported by the sitescope configuration tool.
for details on how to include server certificates and scripts when exporting data from earlier versions of sitescope, see "upgrading an existing sitescope installation" on page 86.
l when using sitescope on a loaded environment that requires more than 4gb of memory, you should manually increase the jvm heap size on the server: a. open the sitescope/bin/start-service file for editing.
b.
in the last line, increase the -xmx4096m parameter to a higher value, as required, up to a maximum of -xmx8192m (for 8gb).
to run the sitescope configuration tool: 1. on the sitescope server, do either of the following: a. b. in graphic mode, run <sitescope install directory>/bin/config_tool.sh in console mode, run <sitescope install directory>/bin/config_tool.sh -i console the sitescope configuration wizard opens.
click next.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 155 of 285 deployment guide chapter 15: using the sitescope configuration tool 2.
select the actions that you want to perform in the introduction screen, and then click next.
n change port.
enables changing any of the ports used by the sitescope server.
for details, see step 3.
n import configuration.
enables importing configuration data from an exported configuration data (.zip) file, or from an existing sitescope installation.
for details, see step 5. n export configuration.
enables exporting sitescope data such as templates, logs, and monitor configuration files from your current sitescope for later import into sitescope.
for details, see step 4.
n configure hp operations agent installed separately.
required to complete the installation of the hp operations agent.
the agent enables sitescope to send events and act as a data storage for metrics data when sitescope is integrated with an hp operations manager or bsm gateway server.
for details, see step 6.
note: this option is disabled if hp operations agent 11.14 has not been installed on the sitescope server.
for details on installing and configuring the agent, see the integrating sitescope with hp operations manager products guide available in the sitescope help or on the hp software integrations site.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 156 of 285 deployment guide chapter 15: using the sitescope configuration tool 3.
if you selected the change ports option, the change ports screen opens.
modify the ports used by the sitescope server as required.
port numbers must be numeric and should be in the 1-65534 range.
a port is mandatory for all components except classic user interface.
note: it is recommended to use ports in the 28000-28100 range so as not to interfere with ports used by other business service management products.
click next to complete the change port operation.
4. if you selected the export configuration option, the export configuration screen opens.
note: you must stop the sitescope service before exporting the data, and restart the service hp sitescope (11.31) page 157 of 285 deployment guide chapter 15: using the sitescope configuration tool after exporting the data.
for details, see "starting and stopping the sitescope process on linux platforms" on page 231.
n in from sitescope folder, accept the default directory given in the box, or enter the full path of the sitescope installation directory.
for example, if you do not want to accept the directory path as listed and the installation directory path is /opt/9_0/sitescope, enter /opt/9_ 0/sitescope.
n in to file, enter the directory to which to export the user data file (the directory must already exist) and the name for the exported user data file.
the name must end in .zip.
n if sitescope was configured to run using key management data encryption, enter the passphrase used for the sitescope server keystore in the passphrase box.
for details, see "configuring sitescope to use a custom key for data encryption" on page 201.
this box is disabled when the default sitescope encryption is used.
n if you also want to export log files, select include log files.
click next to complete the export operation.
5. if you selected the import configuration option, the import configuration screen opens.
note: you must stop the sitescope service before importing the data, and restart the service after importing the data.
for details, see "starting and stopping the sitescope process on hp sitescope (11.31) page 158 of 285 deployment guide chapter 15: using the sitescope configuration tool linux platforms" on page 231.
n if you select use existing exported configuration file, enter the name of the user data file to import.
n if you select import the followingsitescope installation, enter the sitescope installation directory to which to import the user data file.
n if you also want to import log files, select include log files.
n if sitescope was configured to run using key management data encryption, enter the passphrase for the sitescope server keystore in the passphrase box.
confirm the passphrase by entering the same passphrase in the match passphrase box.
for details, see "configuring sitescope to use a custom key for data encryption" on page 201.
these boxes are disabled when the default sitescope encryption is used.
click next to complete the import operation.
6. if you selected the configure hp operations agent installed separately option, the configure hp operations agent screen opens.
select configure hp operations agent.
this configures the hp operations agent.
the agent enables sitescope to send events and act as a data storage for metrics data when sitescope is integrated with an hp operations manager or bsm gateway server.
for details on sending events and reporting metrics data, see the integrating sitescope with hp operations manager products guide available in the sitescope help or on the hp software integrations site.
click next to complete the configuration operation.
7. the summary screen opens.
click finish to close the wizard.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 159 of 285 deployment guide chapter 15: using the sitescope configuration tool running the configuration tool using console mode you can run the configuration tool using a command line or console mode.
use this option if you are configuring sitescope on a remote server, or for any other reason that prevents the use of the user interface.
note: l the option to install and uninstall the hp operations agent directly from within sitescope was removed from the configuration tool.
instead, you must manually install and configure the agent.
the agent is required for sending events and storing metrics data if sitescope is integrated with hpom or bsm (except when graphing metrics data to performance graphing using the profile database in bsm).
for details on installing and configuring the agent, see the integrating sitescope with hp operations manager products guide available in the sitescope help or on the hp software integrations site.
l when importing configurations with monitors deployed from monitor deployment wizard templates or template examples, you must rename the templates on the source sitescope before exporting the configuration, or rename or delete the templates on the destination sitescope.
l files from the following folders cannot be overridden when importing configuration data: templates.os, templates.post, templates.health, templates.applications, and conf\ems.
l when using sitescope on a loaded environment that requires more than 4gb of memory, you should manually increase the jvm heap size on the server: a. open the sitescope/bin/start-service file for editing.
b.
in the last line, increase the -xmx4096m parameter to a higher value, as required, up to a maximum of -xmx8192m (for 8gb).
to run the configuration tool using the console mode: note: the procedure below shows screen captures of how to run the configuration tool on a linux environment.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 160 of 285 deployment guide chapter 15: using the sitescope configuration tool 1.
run the following command: /opt/hp/sitescope/bin/config_tool.sh -i console on linux, or <sitescope root>\bin\config_tool.bat -i console on windows.
2.
the configuration selection screen is displayed.
choose the configuration action that you want to perform.
n enter the number 1 to export sitescope data.
n enter the number 2 to import configuration data from an exported configuration data (.zip) file, or from an existing sitescope installation.
n enter the number 3 to change any of the ports used by the sitescope server.
n enter the number 4 to complete the installation of the hp operations agent (the agent enables sitescope to send metrics and events to hp operations manager and bsm applications).
press enter to continue.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 161 of 285 deployment guide chapter 15: using the sitescope configuration tool 3.
if you selected the export option, the export configuration screen opens.
n for the sitescope source folder: o enter the number 1 to accept the default directory given in [ ].
o enter the number 2 to change the value, and then enter the full path of the sitescope installation directory.
for example, if you do not want to accept the directory path as listed and the installation directory path is /opt/hp/sitescope, enter /opt/
hp/sitescope.
press enter to continue with the installation.
n for exported configuration target file name: o enter the number 1 to export the data to a file named sitescope.zip.
o enter the number 2 to change the name for the exported user data file.
the name must end in .zip.
press enter to complete the export operation.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 162 of 285 deployment guide chapter 15: using the sitescope configuration tool 4.
if you selected the import option, the import configuration screen opens.
select the configuration data option: n enter the number 1 if you do not want to import configuration data.
n enter the number 2 to import configuration data from a file.
if you select this option: o enter the number 1 to accept the default file name given in [ ]. o enter the number 2 to change the value, and enter the name of the file from which to import configuration data.
enter the number 1 to accept the name.
n enter the number 3 to import configuration data from a sitescope installation directory.
if you select this option: o enter the number 1 to accept the default directory given in [ ].
o enter the number 2 to change the value, and enter the sitescope installation directory from hp sitescope (11.31) page 163 of 285 deployment guide chapter 15: using the sitescope configuration tool which to import the user data file.
enter the number 1 to accept the name.
press enter to complete the import operation.
note: if the imported configuration contains expired certificates, they will be merged inside the default sitescope keystore on configuration import.
this can result in the ssl certificate monitor being in error state.
to avoid this, you should delete any expired certificates before exporting configuration data.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 164 of 285 deployment guide chapter 15: using the sitescope configuration tool 5.
if you selected the change ports option, the change ports screen opens.
modify the ports used by the sitescope server as required.
port numbers must be numeric and should be in the 1-65534 range.
a port is mandatory for all components except classic user interface.
note: it is recommended to use ports in the 28000-28100 range so as not to interfere with hp sitescope (11.31) page 165 of 285 deployment guide chapter 15: using the sitescope configuration tool ports used by other bsm products.
press enter to complete the change port operation.
6. if you selected the hp operations agent option, the hp operations agent screen opens.
the agent is required for sending events and storing metrics data if sitescope is integrated with hpom or bsm, the hp operations agent is not required when graphing metrics data to performance graphing using the profile database in bsm.
the profile database is the recommended option, because it is a more robust and scalable data source, and does not require configuration of the hp operations integration.
enter y to complete the installation of the hp operations agent.
after the agent installation is complete, we recommend restarting the sitescope server.
for details on configuring the agent, see the integrating sitescope with hp operations manager products guide available in the sitescope help or on the hp software integrations site.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 166 of 285 deployment guide chapter 15: using the sitescope configuration tool running the configuration tool in silent mode you can run the sitescope configuration tool in silent mode.
this enables you to make a backup copy of sitescope configuration data from your current version of sitescope, without having to navigate through the configuration tool screens and input your selections.
instead, all configuration parameters are allocated values you define in a response file.
consideration before running a silent configuration before running a silent configuration, consider the following issues: l when running a configuration in silent mode, no messages are displayed.
instead, you can view configuration information in the log files, including information on whether the configuration was successful.
the configuration log files can be found under:
n %tmp%\hpsitescope_config_tool.log on windows platforms n /tmp/hpsitescope_config_tool.log on linux platforms l when moving configuration data from one sitescope installation to another, make sure that the sitescope server from which you are taking configuration data is in the same time zone as the sitescope server to which the data is being imported.
l when importing configurations with monitors deployed from monitor deployment wizard templates or template examples, you must rename the templates on the source sitescope before exporting the configuration, or rename or delete the templates on the destination sitescope.
l if the imported configuration contains expired certificates, they will be merged inside the default sitescope keystore on configuration import.
this can result in the ssl certificate monitor being in error state.
to avoid this, you should delete any expired certificates before exporting configuration data.
l when importing configurations to the same version of sitescope, you must rename or delete all template example containers so as to import the new template examples.
l you must stop the sitescope service before exporting or importing the data, and restart the service after exporting or importing the data.
for details, see "starting and stopping the sitescope service on windows platform" on page 230 and "starting and stopping the sitescope process on linux platforms" on page 231.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 167 of 285 deployment guide chapter 15: using the sitescope configuration tool l files from the following folders cannot be overridden when importing configuration data: templates.os, templates.post, templates.health, templates.applications, and conf\ems.
if you selected the export configuration option: l n since the \htdocs directory is not copied when you export sitescope data, you should make a backup of this directory and copy it to the sitescope directory after an upgrade, so that you can see old reports.
n the inclusion of server certificates and scripts when exporting data is supported in the configuration tool.
for details on how to include server certificates and scripts when exporting data from earlier versions of sitescope, see "upgrading an existing sitescope installation" on page 86.
if you selected the sizing option (available on windows platforms only): l n sizing changes can be made only if the physical memory of the sitescope server is larger than the maximum jvm heap size (xmx) that the configuration tool has configured (4gb).
n if you start sitescope by running the go.bat file in the <sitescope installation>\bin directory, open the go.bat file and increase the –xmx4096m parameter, as required, up to a maximum of – xmx8192m (for 8gb).
l if you selected the change ports option, it is recommended to use ports in the 28000-28100 range so as not to interfere with ports used by other business service management products.
l when using sitescope on a loaded environment that requires more than 4gb of memory, you should manually increase the jvm heap size on the server: a. open the sitescope/bin/start-service file for editing.
b.
in the last line, increase the -xmx4096m parameter to a higher value, as required, up to a maximum of -xmx8192m (for 8gb).
l the option to install and uninstall the hp operations agent directly from within sitescope was removed from the configuration tool.
instead, you must manually install and configure the agent.
the agent is required for sending events and storing metrics data if sitescope is integrated with hpom or bsm (except when graphing metrics data to performance graphing using the profile database in bsm).
for details on installing and configuring the agent, see the integrating sitescope with hp operations manager products guide available in the sitescope help or on the hp software integrations site.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 168 of 285 deployment guide chapter 15: using the sitescope configuration tool running silent configuration you run a silent configuration using the configtoolparams.txt file.
since this file has a very specific format, you should create the silent configuration file using the sample file located in the <sitescope installation directory>\examples\silent_config_tool folder.
to run a silent configuration for sitescope: 1. navigate to the configtoolparams.txt file located in the <sitescope installation directory>\examples\silent_config_tool folder.
2. make a copy of the file, and save it to a location of your choice.
3. open the file, modify it to meet your configuration needs (follow the instructions in the sample file), and then save the file.
4. run the configuration from the command line with the -i silent and the -f <answers file> flag.
for example: config_tool -i silent -f c:\configtoolparams.txt (windows) or ./config_tool.sh
-i silent -f /opt/configtoolparams.txt (linux)
hp sitescope (11.31) page 169 of 285 chapter 16: uninstalling sitescope this chapter includes: "uninstalling sitescope on a windows platform" below "uninstalling sitescope on a linux platform" on page 172 l l uninstalling sitescope on a windows platform you can uninstall sitescope 11.30 and any minor-minor versions (patches) installed on top of it, or a sitescope minor-minor version only from your server machine.
for sitescope running on windows platforms, the sitescope installation includes a program to uninstall the sitescope software from your computer.
this section includes: "how to uninstall sitescope and any minor-minor versions installed on top of it" below "how to uninstall sitescope 11.31" on page 172 "how to uninstall a sitescope 11.31 minor-minor patch:" on page 172 l l l how to uninstall sitescope and any minor-minor versions installed on top of it 1.
stop the sitescope service.
a. choose start > all programs > administrative tools > services.
the services dialog box opens.
b. select the sitescope service in the list of services.
if sitescope is running, right-click to display the action menu and select stop.
wait until the status of the service indicates that it is stopped, and close the services window.
2. uninstall sitescope.
a. choose start > all programs >
hp sitescope > uninstall hp sitescope.
b.
on the choose locale screen, choose the language you want to have displayed, and click hp sitescope (11.31) page 170 of 285 deployment guide chapter 16: uninstalling sitescope ok. c. on the application maintenance screen, select uninstall and click next.
d. in the pre-uninstall summary screen, click uninstall.
each software component and its uninstallation progress are displayed on your screen during the uninstallation operation.
after the uninstallation process is complete, the uninstall complete window opens showing you a summary of the uninstallation process.
e. in the uninstall complete window, click done to close the uninstallation program.
from the view log file link, you can access the uninstallation log file that opens in a web browser.
for details on the removed packages, click the details tab 3.
unconfigure and uninstall the hp operations agent if the hp operations agent was installed on the sitescope server and you want to remove it, you need to unconfigure and then uninstall the agent.
a. to manually unconfigure the hp operations agent, run the following command: i. msiexec /x
<sitescope root directory>\installation\components\oa_ policy_signing_tool\win64\hpopriapa-09.00.111-win5.2_64-release.msi /quiet ii.
<sitescope root directory>\installation\components\oa_template_ management\all\install.bat -remove windows64 b. to uninstall the agent installed on the sitescope server, see the instructions in the hp operations agent 11.14 installation guide (https://softwaresupport.hp.com/group/softwaresupport/search-result/- /facetsearch/document/km01001255).
4. when the uninstall process is complete, restart the machine if requested.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 171 of 285 deployment guide chapter 16: uninstalling sitescope how to uninstall sitescope 11.31 1.
stop the sitescope service.
a. choose start > all programs > administrative tools > services.
the services dialog box opens.
b. select the sitescope service in the list of services.
if sitescope is running, right-click to display the action menu and select stop.
wait until the status of the service indicates that it is stopped, and close the services window.
2. select control panel > uninstall a program.
right-click hp sitescope 11.31, select uninstall, and follow the uninstall wizard instructions listed in step 2 above.
3. when the uninstall process is complete, restart the machine if requested.
how to uninstall a sitescope 11.31 minor-minor patch: 1. stop the sitescope service.
a. choose start > all programs > administrative tools > services.
the services dialog box opens.
b. select the sitescope service in the list of services.
if sitescope is running, right-click to display the action menu and select stop.
wait until the status of the service indicates that it is stopped, and close the services window.
2. select control panel > uninstall a program > view installed updates.right-click the patch, for example, hp sitescope patch 11.31, select uninstall, and follow the uninstall wizard instructions listed in step 2 above.
3. when the uninstall process is complete, restart the machine if requested.
uninstalling sitescope on a linux platform you can uninstall sitescope 11.30 and any minor-minor versions (patches) installed on top of it, or a sitescope minor-minor version only from your server machine.
for sitescope running on linux platforms, the sitescope installation includes a script to uninstall the sitescope software from your computer.
if you are unable to run the script, you can delete the sitescope files and directories manually.
this section includes: hp sitescope (11.31) page 172 of 285 deployment guide chapter 16: uninstalling sitescope "how to uninstall sitescope and any minor-minor versions installed on top of it" below "how to uninstall a sitescope minor-minor version" on page 175 l l how to uninstall sitescope and any minor-minor versions installed on top of it 1.
log on to the machine where sitescope is running using the account authorized to execute scripts in the sitescope directory.
normally this should be the account under which sitescope is running.
2. stop sitescope by running the stop shell script included in the <install_path>/sitescope directory.
an example command line to run the script is: sitescope/stop.
a message is displayed indicating that sitescope is stopped.
3. if you work in x windows mode, you should: n uninstall sitescope 11.3x by running the command (for example, for sitescope 11.31): /opt/hp/sitescope/installation/hpsis1131/bin/uninstall.sh n uninstall sitescope 11.30 by running the command: /opt/hp/sitescope/installation/bin/uninstall.sh 4. if you work in console mode, you should: n uninstall sitescope 11.3x by running the command (for example, for sitescope 11.31): /opt/hp/sitescope/installation/hpsis1131/bin/uninstall.sh -i console n uninstall sitescope 11.30 by running the command: /opt/hp/sitescope/installation/bin/uninstall.sh -i console 5.
the hp software installer starts.
specify the locale and press enter.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 173 of 285 deployment guide chapter 16: uninstalling sitescope 6.
type 1 and press enter to confirm that you want to uninstall sitescope.
7. the package uninstall status messages are displayed and then the uninstall completes: 8. unconfigure and uninstall the hp operations agent if the hp operations agent was installed on the sitescope server and you want to remove it, you need to unconfigure and then uninstall the agent.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 174 of 285 deployment guide chapter 16: uninstalling sitescope a. to manually unconfigure the hp operations agent, run the following on the linux terminal: i. rpm -e hpopriapa ii.
<sitescope root directory>\installation\components\oa_template_ management\all\install.sh -remove linux64 b. to uninstall the agent installed on the sitescope server, see the instructions in the hp operations agent 11.14 installation guide (https://softwaresupport.hp.com/group/softwaresupport/search-result/- /facetsearch/document/km01001255).
how to uninstall a sitescope minor-minor version 1. stop sitescope by running the stop shell script included in the /opt/hp/sitescope.
an example command line to stop the sitescope is: /opt/hp/sitescope/stop 2.
run the uninstall command (for example, for sitescope 11.31): n in graphic mode: /opt/hp/sitescope/installation/hpsis1131/bin/uninstall.sh n in console mode: /opt/hp/sitescope/installation/hpsis1131/bin/uninstall.sh -i console n in silent mode: /opt/hp/sitescope/installation/hpsis1131/bin/uninstall.sh -i silent 3.
when the uninstall process is complete, restart the machine if requested.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 175 of 285 part 4: running sitescope securely hp sitescope (11.31) page 176 of 285 chapter 17: hardening the sitescope platform this chapter includes: "overview" below "setting sitescope user preferences" on the next page "password encryption" on the next page "using transport layer security (tls) to access sitescope" on the next page "smart card authentication" on the next page "common criteria certification" on page 180 "fips 140-2 compliancy" on page 180 "encrypt data using a custom key" on page 180 "recommendations for securing user accounts" on page 181 "configuring a warning banner to be displayed on login" on page 183 l l l l l l l l l l overview this chapter describes several configuration and setup options that can be used to harden the sitescope platform.
as a system availability monitoring tool, sitescope might have access to system information that could be used to compromise system security if steps are not taken to secure it.
you should use the configurations and setup options in this section to protect the sitescope platform.
caution: there are two web servers that are active and serving two versions of the sitescope product interface: the sitescope web server, and the apache tomcat server supplied with sitescope.
to limit all access to sitescope, you must apply the applicable settings to both of these servers.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 177 of 285 deployment guide chapter 17: hardening the sitescope platform setting sitescope user preferences sitescope user profiles are used to require a user name and password to access the sitescope interface.
after installation, sitescope is normally accessible to any user who has http access to the server on which sitescope is running.
by default, sitescope is installed with only one user account and this account does not have a default user name or password defined for it.
this is the administrator account.
you should define a user name and password for this account after installing and accessing the product.
you can also create other user account profiles to control how other users may access the product and what actions they may perform.
for more information on creating user accounts, see the user management preferences section in using sitescope in the sitescope help.
password encryption all sitescope passwords are encrypted using a method called triple data encryption standard (tdes).
tdes applies the data encryption algorithm on each 64-bit block of text three successive times, using either two or three different keys.
as a result, it is extremely difficult for unauthorized users to reproduce the original password.
using transport layer security (tls) to access sitescope you can configure sitescope to use tls to control access to the product interface.
for more information, see "configuring sitescope to communicate over a secure connection" on page 184.
note: transport layer security (tls) is the new name for secure sockets layer (ssl).
the sitescope user interface still includes references to ssl.
the terms are used interchangeably in sitescope.
smart card authentication smart cards are physical devices used to identify users in secure systems.
these cards can be used to store certificates which verify the user's identity and allow access to secure environments.
sitescope supports user authentication using smart cards.
if smart card authentication is configured, you cannot log in to sitescope without a valid smart card.
there are different types of smart cards that can be used with sitescope, which include: hp sitescope (11.31) page 178 of 285 deployment guide chapter 17: hardening the sitescope platform l cac.
the common access card (often called cac card), is a smart card that it is used by the us department of defense.
this smart card is required to do any work on government systems in the military.
l piv.
like their military counterparts, federal employees and contractors within civilian agencies also need smart cards.
they use a similar standard known as a piv card (personal identification verification).
the cards are slightly different from cacs, and have varying information printed on them, depending on the issuing agency.
they use a different set of ca (certificate authority) servers than the ones that cacs use.
the piv card is personalized with data needed by the piv system to grant access to the subscriber to federal facilities and information systems; assure appropriate levels of security for all applicable federal applications; and provide interoperability among federal organizations using the standards.
for details on configuring smart card authentication, see "configuring smart card authentication" on page 184.
note: there are many different smart card vendors that exist in the market.
to support all the different permutations for using client certificates, you can use the following parameters in the <sitescope root>\groups\master.config file: l _clientcertificateauthjitccomplianceenforcementenabled l _clientcertificateauthsmartcardenforcementenabled l _clientcertificateauthisgetuidfromsubject l _clientcertificateauthallowlocalusers l _clientcertificatesubjectalternativenamesgeneralname l _clientcertificateauthenabled joint interoperability test command (jitc) certification jitc is a united states military organization that tests technology that pertains to multiple branches of the armed services and government.
jitc provides test, evaluation, and certification services for acquiring and deploying of global “net-centric” military capabilities.
sitescope is currently undergoing jitc testing and evaluation.
jitc certification is one of the common criteria certifications required for supporting cac and smart card authentication login.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 179 of 285 deployment guide chapter 17: hardening the sitescope platform note: this section will be updated when the evaluation process has been completed.
common criteria certification hp sitescope is committed to providing industry-leading monitoring software that meets global industry standards and government certification programs.
hp sitescope is in the process of common criteria certification with evaluation assurance level (eal) 2+.
certifications like common criteria are fundamentally important to federal government security measures.
in addition to protecting government customers from today’s advanced attacks and data theft, these security certifications also supports the needs of hp's global business customers as well.
the common criteria for information technology security evaluation (abbreviated as common criteria) is an international standard for computer security certification.
common criteria is validation that the product does what is promised, and is built in a manner that is both secure and stable.
results are verified by and evaluated by independent testing laboratories.
it is also a requirement by the u.s. government for federal purchases of security products.
fips 140-2 compliancy as part of common criteria certification, sitescope can be configured to operate in fips 140-2 compliant mode.
fips 140-2, or federal information processing standard 140-2 is a set of security requirements for cryptographic modules.
fips 140-2 is overseen by cmvp (cryptographic module validation program) which is a joint effort mandated by both the united states and canadian governments.
sitescope 11.30 is the only version of sitescope at this time that can be configured to work in fips 140-2 compliant mode.
for details on fips 140-2 and configuring sitescope to operate in fips 140-2 compliant mode, see "configuring sitescope to operate in fips 140-2 compliant mode" on page 191.
encrypt data using a custom key by default, sitescope uses a standard encryption algorithm to encrypt the persistency data (this includes configuration data of all defined monitors, groups, alerts, templates, and many other sitescope entities).
you can use key management in the hardening tool to change the cryptographic keys that are used for encrypting the persistency data.
for details, see "configuring sitescope to use a custom key for data encryption" on page 201.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 180 of 285 deployment guide chapter 17: hardening the sitescope platform recommendations for securing user accounts the following table lists the various accounts available in sitescope and the steps that can be taken to secure these accounts.
user account description hardening steps default (administrator) by default, sitescope is installed with only one user account and this account does not have a default user name or password defined for it.
integration viewer by default, sitescope provides an integration viewer user that is used for drilling down from hpom events.
this is a regular user that has been granted view permissions, and permissions to refresh groups and monitors.
for more details, see integrating sitescope with hp operations manager products.
to restrict access to this account and its privileges, we recommend editing the administrator account profile to include a user login name and login password after installing and accessing the product.
sitescope then displays a login page before sitescope can be accessed.
you should create other user account profiles to control how other users may access the product and what actions they can perform.
for more information, see the user management preferences section in using sitescope in the sitescope help.
note: to create other accounts, you must first edit the administrator account profile to include a user login name and password.
if you have an hpom or bsm integration, we recommend changing the predefined login password for the integration viewer account profile.
if you do not have an hpom/bsm integration, you can disable or delete this user.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 181 of 285 deployment guide chapter 17: hardening the sitescope platform user account description sitescope service user for windows: by default, sitescope is installed to run as a local system account (not applicable for linux installations).
this account has extensive privileges on the local computer, and has access to most system objects.
when sitescope is running under a local system account, it attempts to connect to remote servers using credentials of the server as configured in sitescope.
for linux: sitescope must be installed on a linux environment by the root user.
hardening steps for windows: we recommend setting the sitescope service to log on as a user with domain administration privileges.
this gives sitescope access privileges to monitor server data within the domain.
enter an account and password (and confirm the password) that can access the remote servers.
in a domain environment, use the domain administrator user; in a non-domain environment use the built-in administrator user.
you can change this setting during installation time (see"installing sitescope" on page 99), or after sitescope is installed (see the configure sitescope to monitor remote windows servers section in using sitescope in the sitescope help).
for linux: after sitescope has been installed, you can create a non-root user account with permissions to run sitescope (unless the sitescope web server is run on a privileged port, in which case it should be run by the root user).
for details on configuring a non-root user with permissions to run sitescope, see "recommendations for securing user accounts" on the previous page.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 182 of 285 deployment guide chapter 17: hardening the sitescope platform user account description hardening steps jmx user jmx has remote access to the sitescope server by default (the connection using the jmx protocol can be configured using the hardening tool).
api user generally there is no such a user (sitescope has a number of apis that do not require authentication).
to fully secure sitescope, it is recommended that you disable jmx remote access by using the hardening tool.
for details, see "how to use the hardening tool to configure jmx remote access" on page 218.
if you need to disable old unused api users, you can do so by setting disable old apis to true in preferences > infrastructure preferences > custom settings.
configuring a warning banner to be displayed on login you can enable sitescope to display a warning message to users when they log on to sitescope that they are about to log in to a secure system.
to configure a message to be displayed on login: 1. open the <sitescope root directory>\templates.fips\banner.txt file in a text editor, and enter the text that you want to be displayed in the login screen.
note: the login warning message text does not support html tags.
if any markup character sequences are used in the banner.txt file, the whole message string is escaped and displayed as markup code instead of formatted text, and no code is executed.
an error message is logged to the error.log file.
the only exception is <br> tag which can be used to separate message lines along with regular line breaks.
2. open the <sitescope root directory>\groups\master.config file in a text editor, and change the value of property _islogonwarningbannerdisplayed= to true.
whenever a user logs on to sitescope, the notification message is displayed.
the user must confirm the message before being able to use sitescope.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 183 of 285 chapter 18: configuring sitescope to communicate over a secure connection this chapter includes: "configuring sitescope to require a secure connection" below "configuring smart card authentication" below "configuring sitescope to verify certificate revocation" on page 186 l l l configuring sitescope to require a secure connection you can configure sitescope to require secure access to its interfaces (ui and api).
you do this by: 1. obtaining the server certificate issued to the fqdn of the sitescope server.
2. configuring sitescope to respond to access requests only over a secure channel.
you can do this by either: l using the hardening tool to configure sitescope to perform this configuration (recommended method).
for details, see "how to use the hardening tool to configure sitescope to require a secure connection" on page 210.
l manually configuring sitescope to use tls.
for details, see "manually configuring sitescope for using a secure connection" on page 263.
configuring smart card authentication smart cards are physical devices used to identify users in secure systems.
these cards can be used to store certificates which verify the user's identity and allow access to secure environments.
sitescope supports user authentication using smart cards.
if smart card authentication is configured, you cannot log in to sitescope without a valid smart card.
sitescope can be configured to use these certificates in place of the standard model of each user manually entering a user name and password.
you define a method of extracting the user name from the certificate stored on each card.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 184 of 285 deployment guide chapter 18: configuring sitescope to communicate over a secure connection when sitescope is configured for smart card authentication, users can log in to sitescope only with a valid smart card.
the option of logging in by manually typing in your username and password is locked for all users unless smart card configuration is disabled.
if smart card authentication is configured in bsm and you want to integrate sitescope with bsm, you must configure sitescope smart card authentication to authenticate the bsm client certificate.
for details, see "configuring sitescope to connect to a bsm server that requires a secure connection" on page 206.
similarly, if sitescope is configured for smart card authentication and you want to allow bsm to communicate with sitescope, you must first configure bsm to authenticate with the client certificate in sitescope.
for details, see "configuring sitescope to connect to a bsm server that requires a secure connection" on page 206.
note: if smart card enforcement is enabled, the only supported browser is internet explorer running on a windows operating system.
if smart card enforcement is disabled, but client certificate authentication is enabled, to use sitescope in firefox, see "using firefox when client certification is enabled" on page 186.
tip: for more information about smart cards, see the smart card authentication configuration guide (https://softwaresupport.hp.com/group/softwaresupport/search-result/- /facetsearch/document/km01134341).
configuring sitescope to require client certificate authentication if you have configured sitescope to work over tls (see "configuring sitescope to require a secure connection" on the previous page), you can then configure sitescope and sitescope public api client to require client certificate authentication.
you do this by using the hardening tool.
for details, see "how to use the hardening tool to configure sitescope and sitescope public api client certificate authentication" on page 217.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 185 of 285 chapter 19: advanced hardening configuration this chapter includes: "configuring sitescope to verify certificate revocation" below "using firefox when client certification is enabled" below "importing certificate authority certificates into sitescope truststores" on the next page "disabling jmx remote access" on the next page "restoring a backed up configuration" on page 188 "configuring framing filters in sitescope" on page 188 "automatically terminating sessions" on page 190 l l l l l l l configuring sitescope to verify certificate revocation you use the hardening tool to configure sitescope to verify revocation of client certificates.
for details, see "how to use the hardening tool to configure sitescope to verify certificate revocation" on page 212.
using firefox when client certification is enabled if smart card enforcement is disabled, but client certificate authentication is enabled, to open the sitescope user interface in firefox, you must: 1. import your personal certificate into firefox, as follows: a. in firefox, go to tools > options > advanced > certificates > view certificates.
the certificate manager dialog box opens.
b. click import... and open your personal certificate in .pfx
(
or .p12)
file format.
the password entry dialog box opens.
c. enter the password used to encrypt this certificate backup and click ok.
the certificate hp sitescope (11.31) page 186 of 285 deployment guide chapter 19: advanced hardening configuration appears in the certificate manager dialog box, confirming that the certificate is added to firefox.
2. import your personal certificate into the client jre, as follows: a. in the jre, open the java control panel.
b. go to security > certificates and select client authentication as the certificate type.
c. click import and open the client certificate that you imported into firefox.
d. click ok.
the personal certificate appears in the jre.
3. enter the sitescope url in firefox.
the user identification request dialog box opens.
select the personal certificate that you created in step 1 to present as identification.
importing certificate authority certificates into sitescope truststores for sitescope to trust a client certificate, sitescope must trust the certificate authority that issued the client certificate.
for sitescope to trust a certificate authority, the certificate authority's certificate must be stored in the sitescope server and main truststores.
the sitescope server truststore is responsible for authentication of all incoming connection request from clients (api and browsers).
the sitescope main truststore is a certificate authority java truststore that is located in the java directory in the sitescope install directory.
this truststore is responsible for sitescope certificate management.
you use the hardening tool to import certificate authority certificates into sitescope server and main truststores.
for details, see "how to use the hardening tool to import certificate authority certificates into sitescope truststores" on page 214.
disabling jmx remote access jmx has remote access to the sitescope server by default.
you can disable that access.
note: to fully secure sitescope, it is recommended that you disable jmx remote access.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 187 of 285 deployment guide chapter 19: advanced hardening configuration you use the hardening tool to configure jmx remote access.
for details, see "how to use the hardening tool to configure jmx remote access" on page 218.
restoring a backed up configuration when you run the hardening tool, the existing sitescope configuration is automatically backed up.
to restore a backed up configuration, see "how to use the hardening tool to restore a backed up configuration" on page 219.
configuring framing filters in sitescope a frame is a part of a web page or browser window which displays content independent of its container, with the ability to load content independently.
framing of sitescope is enabled by default.
if you do not want other sites to be able to frame sitescope, or you want to allow partial framing only, you must perform the following: 1. open the master.config file in <sitescope root directory>\groups, and configure the _ disableframingfiltering property as required: n true.
filter is disabled which allows sitescope to be framed from every web page.
(this is the default setting.)
n false.
filter is enabled which prevents sitescope being framed from web pages, including hp products such as bsm, hpom, and performance center.
for example, bsm's hosted user interface will not work.
n smart.
enables partial framing of sitescope according to the plugs listed in the _ framingfilteringplugsclasses property.
2. when using partial framing, create plugs that you want applied by the filter, and add them to the _ framingfilteringplugsclasses property.
a. navigate to the _framingfilteringplugsclasses property in the master.config file.
by default, this property includes the following out-of-the-box plugs: o com.mercury.sitescope.web.request.framing.plugs.lwssoplug.
allows requests sent with a lightweight single sign-on (lw-sso) token.
o com.mercury.sitescope.web.request.framing.plugs.bsmplug. allows requests sent from bsm's sam administration.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 188 of 285 deployment guide chapter 19: advanced hardening configuration o com.mercury.sitescope.web.request.framing.plugs.performancecenterplug.
allows requests from performance center.
you can disable any of the out-of-the-box plugs by removing them from the property.
b. to add your own plugs: i. write the plug which must implement the interface: com.mercury.sitescope.web.request.framing.iframingplug.
this interface exists in <sitescope root directory>\web-inf\lib\ss_webaccess.jar.
this jar must be in the classpath to compile the plug.
below is an example of a plug that allows framing for a parameter with the request name exampleparameter when this parameter is set to true: package com.company.sitescope.examples.plug import javax.servlet.servletrequest; import com.mercury.sitescope.web.request.framing.iframingplug; public class exampleplug implements iframingplug{ @override public boolean isauthorized(servletrequest request) { //add the code that will determine whether this request comes from an authorized product.
if (request == null){ return false; } httpservletrequest httpservletrequest = (httpservletrequest)request; if (httpservletrequest.getparameter("exampleparameter") == null){ return false; } return "true".equalsignorecase((string)httpservletrequest.getparameter ("exampleparameter")); } } ii. add the class fully qualified name to the _framingfilteringplugsclasses property in the master.config file (separated by a comma).
for example, com.company.sitescope.examples.plug.exampleplug should be appended to the list.
iii. create a jar that contains all your own plugs, and add it to the <sitescope root directory>\web-inf\lib folder.
3. restart sitescope (required after making any changes to the master.config file).
hp sitescope (11.31) page 189 of 285 deployment guide chapter 19: advanced hardening configuration automatically terminating sessions after you have logged in to sitescope, you can set a time period for terminating session identifiers.
1. open the <sitescope root directory>\groups\master.config file, and change the value of the _ maxsessiontimeminutes property.
for example, if you enter 2, after an idle period of two minutes, the session will expire and automatically redirect you to the sitescope login page.
note: the default value is -1, which indicates the session will not expire.
2. restart the sitescope server.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 190 of 285 chapter 20: configuring sitescope to operate in fips 140-2 compliant mode this chapter includes: "fips 140-2 compliancy overview" below "enabling fips 140-2 compliant mode" on the next page "disabling fips 140-2 compliant mode" on page 198 "troubleshooting and limitations" on page 199 l l l l fips 140-2 compliancy overview fips 140-2, or federal information processing standard, is a u.s. and canadian government certification standard for encryption and cryptographic modules where each individual encryption component in the overall solution requires an independent certification.
it was developed to define procedures, architecture, algorithms, and other techniques used in computer systems.
the full fips text is available online from the national institute of standards and technology (nist).
to operate in fips 140-2 complaint mode, the sitescope administrator must enable fips 140-2 mode using the sitescope hardening tool.
sitescope runs self-tests at startup, performs the cryptographic modules integrity check, and then regenerates the keying materials.
at this point, sitescope is operating in fips 140-2 mode.
reasons to enable fips mode: your organization might need to use sitescope in fips mode if: l you are a federal government department or contractor.
l you want to increase your security to protect your business from advanced attacks and data theft.
software requirements hp sitescope (11.31) page 191 of 285 deployment guide chapter 20: configuring sitescope to operate in fips 140-2 compliant mode fips compliance requires that your operating system and browser meet specific requirements for versions and settings.
while all browsers supported in sitescope are supported in fips mode, not all versions of operating systems can handle the cryptographic demands fips requires.
as a result, some operating systems sitescope normally supports are not supported in fips mode.
to run in fips mode, sitescope must be installed on one of the following operating systems: • windows server 2008 r2 (64-bit) • windows server 2012 r2 (64-bit) jdbc drivers when running sitescope in fips mode, you should consider using your jdbc driver instead of the default drivers that are provided with sitescope.
sitescope connected with non-fips compliant applications when sitescope is connected to an application that uses an algorithm that is not fips approved, the connection between sitescope and that application will not be fips compliant (even if fips-140-2 mode was enabled on sitescope).
enabling fips 140-2 compliant mode to enable sitescope to run in fips 140-2 compliant mode when using a secure connection, you must perform the following steps: "step 1: configure ldap integration" on the next page "step 2: configure your windows operating system for fips 140-2 compliant mode" on the next page "step 3: run sitescopehardeningtoolruntime " on page 195 "step 4: disable jmx remote access to the sitescope server " on page 195 "step 5: configure ssl" on page 196 "step 6: configure client authentication" on page 197 l l l l l
l note: if you plan on enabling key management data encryption (provides stronger encryption than the standard encryption), you must do this after enabling or disabling fips 140-2 mode.
if key management data encryption has already been configured, you must follow the steps in "how to hp sitescope (11.31) page 192 of 285 deployment guide chapter 20: configuring sitescope to operate in fips 140-2 compliant mode enable or disable fips compliant mode after changing the encryption key" on page 203.
step 1: configure ldap integration you need to enable ldap user authentication to log in to sitescope using client certificates.
1. configure the ldap server on sitescope.
for details, see "how to set up sitescope to use ldap authentication" in the using sitescope guide in the sitescope help.
2. create a new role in sitescope user management for ldap users.
3. change the sitescope administrator login name to the email address of the user located in ldap.
this should be the same as the user in the client certificate (that is entered in step 3 of "step 6: configure client authentication" on page 197).
do not enter a password.
step 2: configure your windows operating system for fips 140-2 compliant mode 1.
configure your windows operating system for fips 140-2 mode.
a. use administrative credentials to log on to the computer.
b. click start, click run, type gpedit.msc, and then press enter.
the local group policy editor opens.
c. in the local group policy editor, double-click windows settings under the computer configuration node, and then double-click security settings.
d. under the security settings node, double-click local policies, and then click security options.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 193 of 285 deployment guide chapter 20: configuring sitescope to operate in fips
140-2 compliant mode e. f.
in the details pane, double-click system cryptography: use fips-compliant algorithms for encryption, hashing, and signing.
in the system cryptography: use fips-compliant algorithms for encryption, hashing, and signing dialog box, click enabled, and then click ok to close the dialog box.
g. close the local group policy editor.
h. make sure that this security option was enabled.
i. open registry editor.
click start, click run, type regedit, and then press enter.
the registry editor opens.
ii. find the following key and verify the value.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 194 of 285 deployment guide chapter 20: configuring sitescope to operate in fips 140-2 compliant mode l key: hklm\system\currentcontrolset\control\lsa\fipsalgorithmpolicy\enabled.
this registry value reflects the current fips setting.
if this setting is enabled, the value is 1.
if this setting is disabled, the value is 0.
l value: 1. iii. tip: for additional information, see: o http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc750357.aspx o http://support.microsoft.com/kb/811833
step 3: run sitescopehardeningtoolruntime 1.
copy the sitescopehardeningtoolruntime.zip file from the \tools folder of the sitescope installer package to the sitescope server.
2. extract the contents of the file to the <sitescope root directory>\tools\sitescopehardeningtool folder.
3. start the hardening tool by running the command line: <sitescope_home_directory>\tools\sitescopehardeningtool\runsslconfiguration.bat step 4: disable jmx remote access to the sitescope server use the hardening tool to disable jmx remote access to the sitescope server: hp sitescope (11.31) page 195 of 285 deployment guide chapter 20: configuring sitescope to operate in fips 140-2 compliant mode 1.
run the hardening tool.
for details, see "how to run the hardening tool" on page 209.
2. select the option "configure jmx remote access".
3. follow the instructions in the tool for disabling jmx remote access.
tip:
changes in configuration take effect only after you exit the hardening tool.
step 5: configure ssl 1. start the hardening tool by running the command line: <sitescope_home_directory>\tools\sitescopehardeningtool\runsslconfiguration.bat 2.
enter 1 to select the "sitescope hardening configuration" option.
3. enter a name to use for the backup file that is created.
this is required if you need to disable fips 140-2 mode and restore the previous sitescope configuration that existed before running the hardening tool.
for details, see "disabling fips 140-2 compliant mode" on page 198.
4. enter 2 to select the "configure sitescope standalone to work over ssl (https)" option.
5. enter y to confirm that you want to configure sitescope to work over ssl. 6.
enter y to confirm you want sitescope to be fips 140-2 compliant.
7. when fips 140-2 compliant mode is successfully configured, select one of the following methods to create the sitescope server keystore to hold the sitescope server certificate: n import a server keystore in .pkcs12 format the tool prompts you to select an alias in which the key for sitescope ssl authentication is located.
note: if you later configure sitescope and sitescope public api client for client certificate authentication (see "configuring sitescope to require client certificate authentication" on page 185), sitescope uses this alias to export the key to the client truststore of the sitescope api.
follow the instructions in the tool.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 196 of 285 deployment guide chapter 20: configuring sitescope to operate in fips 140-2 compliant mode n create a server keystore by signing a request on a certified certificate authority server.
selecting this option creates a new keystore and generates a key request to a certificate authority for a signed certificate.
the generated certificate is then imported into the keystore.
the tool prompts you to enter server keystore parameters.
for the common name, you must enter the same url used on your machine, including fqdn if used (for example, yourserver.domain.com), and for the alias name, your machine's name (for example, yourserver).
8. copy the signed sitescope server certificate to create a signed certificate by your certificate authority server.
9. enter the full path to the signed certificate that you received from the certificate authority server.
10. enter the full path to the root ca certificate that was used to issue the above certificate.
11. type yes to trust the certificate you received from the certificate authority server.
the certificate is added to the sitescope server keystore.
step 6: configure client authentication 1. enter a password for the sitescope server truststore for client certificate authentication.
the password must be at least 6 characters long, and should not contain any special characters.
the default password is changeit.
2. enter y to confirm that you want to enable client certification authentication.
if you enable client authentication, sitescope performs full client authentication upon the handshake and extracts a client certificate.
this client certificate is checked against the sitescope user management (ldap) system.
for details, see "step 1: configure ldap integration" on page 193.
3. enter a username property for the client certificate in the client certificate alternativesubjectname field.
the default username is other name.
4. enter y to confirm you want to enable smart card enforcement.
if you enable smart card enforcement, sitescope verifies that the client certificate originates from a hardware device, and adds the certificate to the sitescope truststore.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 197 of 285 deployment guide chapter 20: configuring sitescope to operate in fips 140-2 compliant mode for more details about smart card enforcement, see "configuring smart card authentication" on page 184.
5. enter y to confirm you want to add ca certificates to the sitescope truststore.
note: for sitescope to trust a client certificate, sitescope must trust the certificate authority that issued the client certificate.
for sitescope to trust a certificate authority, the certificate authority's certificate must be imported into the sitescope server truststore.
6. enter the full path to the root ca certificate file in cer format.
7. the ca certificate is added to the sitescope truststore.
if the certificate already exists in the keystore a message is displayed.
type yes to confirm you still want to add the certificate to the sitescope truststore.
8. (optional) to add additional ca certificates to the sitescope server truststore, enter y, and repeat steps 1-3.
note: no additional ca certificates are required.
9. enter q to complete the hardening tool process.
disabling fips 140-2 compliant mode if fips 140-2 compliant mode was enabled and you are using a secure connection, you cannot use the disable fips option in the hardening tool to disable fips 140-2 compliant mode.
instead, you must restore the previous sitescope configuration that existed before fips mode was enabled.
if fips 140-2 compliant mode was enabled using a non-secure connection, you use the disable fips 140-2 compliant mode option in the hardening tool.
disabling fips 140-2 compliant mode for a secure connection 1.
start the hardening tool by running the command line: <sitescope_home_directory>\tools\sitescopehardeningtool\runsslconfiguration.bat 2.
enter 2 to select the "restore sitescope configuration from backup" option.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 198 of 285 deployment guide chapter 20: configuring sitescope to operate in fips 140-2 compliant mode 3.
enter the number of the backup configuration you want to restore from the list of available backups.
4. enter y to confirm you want to restore the selected backup configuration.
5. enter q to complete the hardening tool process.
disabling fips 140-2 compliant mode for a non-secure connection 1.
start the hardening tool by running the command line: <sitescope_home_directory>\tools\sitescopehardeningtool\runsslconfiguration.bat 2.
enter 1 to select the "sitescope hardening configuration" option.
3. when prompted in the tool, select the "configure fips 140-2 compliancy for a non-secure connection" option.
4. enter 2 to disable fips 140-2 compliant mode.
5. enter y to confirm that you want to disable fips 140-2 compliant mode.
6. enter q to complete the hardening tool process.
troubleshooting and limitations limitations: l only ssh2 is supported for ssh connections when sitescope is run in fips 140-2 mode.
l the prefer ssl to tls option in url monitors, url tool, and new/edit http recipient dialog box is ignored when sitescope is run in fips 140-2 mode (authentication using tls is mandatory in fips 140-2 mode).
troubleshooting: l problem: unable to import a certificate into sitescope from a remote host using certificate management when fips 140-2 mode is enabled.
workaround: import the certificate from a file, either from the certificate management page in the sitescope user interface, or manually by running the following command: keytool -import -file <trusted cert file> -alias <trust cert name> -keypass hp sitescope (11.31) page 199 of 285 deployment guide chapter 20: configuring sitescope to operate in fips 140-2 compliant mode <password> -keystore <trust store file (sitescope\java\lib\security\cacerts)> -storepass
<password> -providername jsafejce –storetype pkcs12 hp sitescope (11.31) page 200 of 285 chapter 21: configuring sitescope to use a custom key for data encryption this chapter includes: l l l l "key management overview" below "how to configure sitescope to use a custom key for data encryption" on the next page "how to enable or disable fips compliant mode after changing the encryption key" on page 203 "how to export and import configuration data when using a custom key for data encryption" on page 204 key management overview by default, sitescope encrypts the persistency data using a standard encryption algorithm (persistency data includes configuration data of all the defined monitors, groups, alerts, templates, and many other sitescope entities found in the <sitescope root>\persistency directory).
you can use the key management for data encryption option in the hardening tool to change the cryptographic key used for encrypting sitescope persistency data.
changing cryptographic keys provides stronger encryption than the standard sitescope encryption.
using key management for data encryption is supported on the following sitescope tools: hardening tool, persistency viewer, and persistency logger.
key management for data encryption can also be configured to operate when sitescope is in fips 140-2 compliant mode.
when key management is enabled, you configure sitescope to use a custom key for data encryption.
you do this by entering a passphrase which sitescope uses to generate a new key and encrypt the persistency data.
you must enter this passphrase when exporting sitescope persistency data from your current sitescope for later import into sitescope.
when importing the persistency data (either during installation, or after installation using the sitescope configuration tool), you must enter the same passphrase for the sitescope server key.
note that the key is not saved to the persistency.
l if you plan on enabling or disabling fips 140-2 compliant mode (see "configuring sitescope to operate in fips 140-2 compliant mode" on page 191), you must do this before you enable key management data encryption, to avoid having to disable and then re-enable key management hp sitescope (11.31) page 201 of 285 deployment guide chapter 21: configuring sitescope to use a custom key for data encryption data encryption.
l if you need to enable or disable fips 140-2 compliancy mode after changing the cryptographic keys for encrypting sitescope data, follow the steps described in "how to enable or disable fips compliant mode after changing the encryption key" on the next page.
troubleshooting and limitations l key management for data encryption is not supported in sitescopes installed on linux platforms.
l key management for data encryption is not supported when using sitescope failover to provide backup infrastructure monitoring for the primary sitescope (neither on the primary sitescope, or on the sitescope failover server).
if you are using sitescope failover with a sitescope that uses the default key encryption and you then switch sitescope to key management data encryption using the hardening tool, you will get an unexpected_shutdown error in the high_ availability.log when mirroring the configuration.
how to configure sitescope to use a custom key for data encryption using key management, you can manage and change the cryptographic keys that are used for encrypting the sitescope configuration data (persistency).
note: if you plan to use sitescope in fips 140-2 compliant mode (see "fips 140-2 compliancy overview" on page 191), you must configure fips compliant mode before changing the cryptographic key, to avoid having to disable and then re-enable key management for data encryption.
if you need to make changes to fips mode after customizing the encryption key, follow the steps described in "how to enable or disable fips compliant mode after changing the encryption key" on the next page.
1. install sitescope.
for details, see "installation workflow" on page 100.
2. start sitescope (in order to generate sitescope persistency data).
3. stop sitescope.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 202 of 285 deployment guide chapter 21: configuring sitescope to use a custom key for data encryption 4.
run the hardening tool.
a. when prompted in the tool, select the option "enable or re-encrypt key management data encryption".
b. enter 1 to encrypt or re-encrypt persistency data using a custom key.
changing cryptographic keys for encrypting the configuration provides stronger encryption than the standard sitescope encryption.
to restore persistency data to the standard key encryption, enter 2. c. confirm you want to encrypt or re-encrypt persistency data using a custom key.
d. enter a new passphrase to use for the custom key (this passphrase is not the one that is already in use; it is for the new iteration of the encryption).
the passphrase cannot contain empty spaces or escaped characters.
sitescope generates a new key, and uses it to encrypt the persistency data.
note: you must enter this passphrase when using the sitescope configuration wizard or the sitescope configuration tool to export or import sitescope configuration data that was encrypted using this custom key.
note that the passphrase is not stored with the zip file in the exported configuration.
5. start sitescope.
how to enable or disable fips compliant mode after changing the encryption key if you want to enable or disable fips 140-2 compliant mode after you have changed the sitescope server key used for encrypting data, you must perform the following: note: failure to perform the steps in the order listed below can result in sitescope data loss.
1. disable key management for data encryption (see step 4 of "how to configure sitescope to use a custom key for data encryption" on the previous page, and enter 2 to restore the standard encryption).
2. enable/disable fips 140-2 compliant mode.
for details, see "enabling fips 140-2 compliant hp sitescope (11.31) page 203 of 285 deployment guide chapter 21: configuring sitescope to use a custom key for data encryption mode" on page 192.
3. enable key management for data encryption (continue from step 4 of "how to configure sitescope to use a custom key for data encryption" on page 202 and enter 1 to encrypt persistency data using a custom key).
how to export and import configuration data when using a custom key for data encryption when sitescope is configured to use key management for data encryption, you enter a passphrase that sitescope uses to generate a new key.
sitescope uses this key to encrypt the persistency data.
when you later export or import this encrypted data into sitescope, you must enter the same passphrase for the sitescope server key.
1. export sitescope configuration data from your current sitescope for later import into sitescope.
n when using the sitescope configuration tool: i. in the export configuration screen, enter the passphrase used for the sitescope server keystore in the passphrase box.
this box is disabled when the default sitescope encryption is used.
ii.
click next to complete the export operation.
the configuration data is encrypted and exported using the custom key.
note: these input fields are disabled when the default sitescope encryption is used.
n when running the configuration tool in console mode using the configuration tool: in the export configuration screen, enter the passphrase used for the sitescope server keystore when prompted, and then press enter to complete the export operation.
n when using silent mode: enter the key management data encryption passphrase in the relevant section of the ovinstallparams.ini file.
2. import sitescope configuration data.
n user interface (during installation in the sitescope configuration wizard, or post-installation in the sitescope configuration tool): hp sitescope (11.31) page 204 of 285 deployment guide chapter 21: configuring sitescope to use a custom key for data encryption i. ii.
in the import configuration screen, enter the name of the user data (zip) file to import, or enter the sitescope installation directory from which to import the user data file.
in the passphrase box, enter the passphrase used for the sitescope server keystore.
confirm the passphrase by entering the same passphrase in the match passphrase box.
note: these boxes are disabled when the default sitescope encryption is used.
iii. click next to complete the import operation.
n console mode (during installation, or post-installation using the configuration tool): in the import configuration screen, enter the passphrase used for the sitescope server key when prompted, and then press enter to complete the import operation.
n silent installation: enter the passphrase for the custom key used for data encryption in the relevant section of the ovinstallparams.ini file.
the imported configuration data is encrypted using the custom key.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 205 of 285 chapter 22: configuring sitescope to communicate with bsm over a secure connection this chapter includes: l l l "configuring sitescope to connect to a bsm server that requires a secure connection" below "configuring sitescope to connect to a bsm server that requires a client certificate" below "configuring bsm to connect to sitescope when sitescope requires a client certificate" on the next page configuring sitescope to connect to a bsm server that requires a secure connection to configure sitescope to connect to a bsm server that requires a secure connection, you must establish trust to enable secure communication between sitescope and bsm.
this means that sitescope must trust the certificate authority that issued the bsm server certificate.
for sitescope to trust a certificate authority, the certificate authority's certificate must be stored in the sitescope server and main truststores.
for details, see "importing certificate authority certificates into sitescope truststores" on page 187.
configuring sitescope to connect to a bsm server that requires a client certificate you can configure sitescope to connect to a bsm server that requires a client certificate.
this involves importing the bsm server certificate into a sitescope keystore.
we recommend that you do this by using the hardening tool.
for details, see "how to use the hardening tool to configure sitescope to connect to a bsm server that requires a client certificate" on page 215.
it is also possible use the manual procedures in "manually configuring sitescope to connect to a bsm server that requires a client certificate" on page 272.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 206 of 285 deployment guide chapter 22: configuring sitescope to communicate with bsm over a secure connection configuring bsm to connect to sitescope when sitescope requires a client certificate in bsm, perform the following steps on both the gateway and data processing servers: 1. copy the file <sitescope home>\templates.certificates\bsmclientkeystore from the sitescope machine file to any folder on the bsm machine.
2. stop bsm.
3. edit <hp bsm root directory>\ejbcontainer\bin\product_run.bat and add the following: set security_opts=-djavax.net.ssl.keystore=full_path_to_copied_ bsmclientkeystore_file
-djavax.net.ssl.keystorepassword=password_for_ bsmclientkeystore_file
-djavax.net.ssl.keystoretype=jks set java_opts=%java_opts% %security_opts% where full_path_to_copied_bsmclientkeystore_file is a keystore path, and password_for_ bsmclientkeystore_file is the keystore password.
4. restart bsm.
5. configure bsm and sitescope in system availability management (sam) administration.
6. change the gateway server name/ip address property in sam administration > new/edit sitescope > distributed settings to the fully qualified domain name (fqdn) of the secure reverse proxy.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 207 of 285 chapter 23: using the hardening tool the hardening tool is a command-line tool that enables you to configure sitescope to perform a full or partial hardening of sitescope.
note: each time the tool runs, it performs a full backup of the existing sitescope configuration, enabling you to roll back to a backed up configuration.
for details, see "how to use the hardening tool to restore a backed up configuration" on page 219.
you can use the hardening tool to perform the following tasks: "how to run the hardening tool" on the next page "how to use the hardening tool to configure sitescope to require a secure connection" on page 210 "how to use the hardening tool to configure sitescope to verify certificate revocation" on page 212 "how to use the hardening tool to import certificate authority certificates into sitescope truststores" on page 214 "how to use the hardening tool to configure sitescope to connect to a bsm server that requires a client certificate" on page 215 "how to use the hardening tool to enable fips 140-2 compliant mode" on page 217 "how to use the hardening tool to enable key management for data encryption" on page 217 "how to use the hardening tool to configure sitescope and sitescope public api client certificate authentication" on page 217 "how to use the hardening tool to configure jmx remote access" on page 218 "how to use the hardening tool to restore a backed up configuration" on page 219 l l l l l l l l l l hp sitescope (11.31) page 208 of 285 deployment guide chapter 23: using the hardening tool how to run the hardening tool this topic describes how to open and run the hardening tool.
to perform the other tasks described in the topics in this chapter, you must first perform the steps in this topic.
1. if you want to enable ldap user authentication (required if you intend to log in to sitescope by using client certificates only), configure ldap integration before running the tool: a. configure the ldap server on sitescope.
for details, see "how to set up sitescope to use ldap authentication" in the using sitescope guide in the sitescope help.
b. create a new role in sitescope user management for ldap users.
c. change the sitescope administrator login name to the email address of a user located in ldap.
do not enter a password.
2. stop the sitescope service: windows: n if you are running sitescope from go.bat, close the command-line terminal or press ctrl+c.
n if you are running sitescope as a service: i. in windows explorer, search for services.
the component services window opens.
ii.
in the left pane, select services (local).
iii.
in the services list in the center pane, select hp sitescope.
iv.
in the area to the left of the service list, click stop the service.
linux: run the command line: cd /opt/
hp/sitescope/ ./stop
caution: do not run the hardening tool when sitescope is running.
3. start the tool by running the command line: hp sitescope (11.31) page 209 of 285 deployment guide chapter 23: using the hardening tool windows: <sitescope_home_directory>\tools\sitescopehardeningtool\runsslconfiguration.bat linux: ./opt/hp/sitescope/tools/sitescopehardeningtool/runsslconfiguration.sh the hardening tool opens.
4. when prompted in the tool, select the option "sitescope hardening configuration".
the existing sitescope configuration is automatically backed up.
5. when prompted, enter a backup description to allow easy recognition in case you want to restore that backup in the future.
to restore a backed up configuration, see "how to use the hardening tool to restore a backed up configuration" on page 219.
note: when using the hardening tool, the tomcat configuration server.xml file in the /opt/hp/sitescope/tomcat/conf directory is overwritten and any modifications made to that file before running the tool are removed.
to restore these modifications, you must reapply them to this file after running the tool.
6. select one or a combination of the tasks listed in the tool.
for details on using the hardening tool to perform configuration tasks, see the other topics in this chapter.
note: changes in configuration take effect only after you exit the hardening tool.
how to use the hardening tool to configure sitescope to require a secure connection note: if you plan to enable sitescope to run in fips 140-2 compliant mode, follow the procedures in "enabling fips 140-2 compliant mode" on page 192.
you can use the hardening tool to configure sitescope to require a secure connection (https).
hp sitescope (11.31) page 210 of 285 deployment guide chapter 23: using the hardening tool 1.
run the hardening tool.
for details, see "how to run the hardening tool" on page 209.
2. when prompted in the tool, select the option "configure sitescope standalone to work over ssl (https)".
alternatively, if you want to perform all the hardening configuration tasks available in the tool, select the option "full sitescope hardening configuration (all of the configuration options)".
3. confirm that you want to configure sitescope to work over ssl. 4. confirm whether you want to configure sitescope to be fips 140-2 compliant.
for details, see "enabling fips 140-2 compliant mode" on page 192.
5. select one of the following methods to create the sitescope server keystore to hold the sitescope server certificate: n import a server keystore in .jks format.
the tool prompts you to select an alias in which the key for sitescope ssl authentication is located.
note: if you later configure sitescope and sitescope public api client for client certificate authentication (see "configuring sitescope to require client certificate authentication" on page 185), sitescope uses this alias to export the key to the client truststore of the sitescope api.
follow the instructions in the tool.
n create a server keystore by signing a request on a certified certificate authority server.
selecting this option creates a new keystore and generates a key request to a certificate authority for a signed certificate.
the generated certificate is then imported into the keystore.
the tool prompts you to enter server keystore parameters.
we recommend that for the common name, you enter your machine's url (for example, yourserver.domain.com), and for the alias name, your machine's name (for example, yourserver).
n import a server keystore from a server certificate in .pfx format.
selecting this option creates a keystore from a certificate in .pfx format.
this certificate must contain its private key.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 211 of 285 deployment guide chapter 23: using the hardening tool the hardening tool automatically ensures that the keystore password and the private key are the same each time a keystore is created.
6. enter a username property for the client certificate.
the default username is other name.
the server certificate is imported to the server keystore.
the certificate alias appears in the tool.
7. confirm if you want to enable sitescope client authentication.
if you enable client tls authentication, sitescope performs full client tls authentication upon the tls handshake and extracts a client certificate.
this client certificate is checked against the sitescope user management system.
8. confirm if you want to enable smart card enforcement.
if you enable smart card enforcement, sitescope verifies that the client certificate originates from a hardware device.
for more details about smart card enforcement, see "configuring smart card authentication" on page 184.
9. enter a password for the sitescope server truststore.
the default password is changeit.
for sitescope to trust a client certificate, sitescope must trust the certificate authority that issued the client certificate.
for sitescope to trust a certificate authority, the certificate authority's certificate must be stored in the sitescope server and main truststores.
to import certificate authority certificates into sitescope truststores, see "how to use the hardening tool to import certificate authority certificates into sitescope truststores" on page 214.
10. enter q to complete the hardening tool process.
how to use the hardening tool to configure sitescope to verify certificate revocation you can use the hardening tool to configure sitescope to verify revocation of client certificates using the following methods: l certificate revocation list (crl) hp sitescope (11.31) page 212 of 285 deployment guide chapter 23: using the hardening tool enables you to verify client certificate revocation through a crl list.
the url of the crl list is located in the client certificate properties.
the list is downloaded to the local server.
you are prompted to enter a life time of the crl list cached on the local server.
the following table describes the crl lifetime: crl value description -1 0
≥1 the crl is cached locally and reloaded only if changed on the server.
this value is recommended for better performance.
the crl is reloaded with each verification request.
the crl lifetime in seconds.
at the expiration of this time, the crl is reloaded.
l online certificate status protocol (ocsp) enables you to verify client certificate revocation through a connection to a remote server.
sitescope passes the serial number of the client certificate to the remote server and waits for a response.
the default ocsp responder url is located in the client certificate properties, but you can override this url.
you can verify client certificate revocation via a crl, or via a crl and the ocsp.
to verify client certificate revocation: 1. run the hardening tool.
for details, see "how to run the hardening tool" on page 209.
2. select the option "configure sitescope ssl certificate revocation verification via crl and ocsp".
3. follow the instructions in the tool.
the tool prompts you to activate the forward http proxy.
if you activate the forward http proxy, all certificate revocation requests are redirected through the proxy server to crl and ocsp urls.
you can also configure sitescope to comply with the federal information processing standard (fips) publication 140-2 if required.
for details, see "configuring sitescope to operate in fips 140-2 compliant mode" on page 191.
changes in configuration take effect only after you exit the hardening tool.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 213 of 285 deployment guide chapter 23: using the hardening tool how to use the hardening tool to import certificate authority certificates into sitescope truststores for more information about importing certificate authority certificates into sitescope truststores, see "importing certificate authority certificates into sitescope truststores" on page 187.
to import certificate authority certificates into sitescope truststores:
1. prerequisites (if configuring sitescope to require a secure connection) before importing certificate authority certificates into sitescope truststores, you must configure sitescope to work over tls by importing a sitescope server certificate into the sitescope server keystore.
for details, see "how to use the hardening tool to configure sitescope to require a secure connection" on page 210.
2. run the hardening tool.
for details, see "how to run the hardening tool" on page 209.
3. when prompted in the tool, select the option "import ca certificates into sitescope main and server truststores".
4. follow the instructions in the tool.
tips: l the tool accepts file paths in regular windows format only.
in unix format, where a blank space in a file path is preceded by a backslash (“\”) to indicate that a blank space follows, you should remove the backslash.
format windows unix file path /user/temp dir/certificate.cer /user/temp\ dir/certificate.cer change to: /user/temp dir/certificate.cer l changes in configuration take effect only after you exit the hardening tool.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 214 of 285 deployment guide chapter 23: using the hardening tool how to use the hardening tool to configure sitescope to connect to a bsm server that requires a client certificate you use the hardening tool to configure client tls authentication for bsm integration.
the tool enables you to configure sitescope to allow bsm to integrate with sitescope.
you can also use this tool to configure sitescope failover for tls with client certificate authentication.
in both cases, you must follow the procedure described below.
note: before configuring tls client authentication for bsm integration, you must configure sitescope to work over tls by importing a sitescope server certificate into the sitescope server keystore.
for details, see "how to use the hardening tool to configure sitescope to require a secure connection" on page 210.
if you have not already done this, the hardening tool prompts you to perform a full sitescope hardening configuration.
to configure client tls client authentication for bsm integration: 1. run the hardening tool.
for details, see "using the hardening tool" on page 208.
2. select the option "configure sitescope client certificate authentication for bsm integration".
3. follow the instructions in the tool.
a. when prompted, enter a full path in .cer format to the certificate authority certificate that issued the bsm server certificate.
the bsm server certificate is imported into the sitescope truststore.
b.
when prompted, confirm that you trust the bsm server certificate.
the bsm server certificate is imported to the keystore.
c. when prompted, select one of the following methods to create the sitescope server keystore to hold the sitescope server certificate: o import a server keystore in .jks format.
the tool prompts you to select an alias in which the key for sitescope tls authentication is located.
note: if you later configure sitescope and sitescope public api client for client hp sitescope (11.31) page 215 of 285 deployment guide chapter 23: using the hardening tool certificate authentication (see "configuring sitescope to require client certificate authentication" on page 185), sitescope uses this alias to export the key to the client truststore of the sitescope api.
o create a server keystore by signing a request on a certified certificate authority server.
selecting this option creates a new keystore and generates a key request to a certificate authority for a signed certificate.
the generated certificate is then imported into the keystore.
the tool prompts you to enter server keystore parameters.
we recommend that for the common name, you enter your machine's url (for example, anyserver.domain.com), and for the alias name, your machine's name (for example, anyserver).
o import a server keystore from a server certificate in .pfx format.
selecting this option creates a keystore from a certificate in .pfx format.
this certificate must contain its private key.
the hardening tool automatically ensures that the keystore password and the private key are the same each time a keystore is created.
d. when prompted, enter the password for the client keystore that will be used to authenticate bsm. sitescope creates the bsm client certificate keystore.
e. when prompted, enter the password for the discovery agent truststore mamtruststoreexp.jks.
the default password is logomania.
we highly recommend that you do not change the default password.
during the configuration process, sitescope automatically imports the bsm server certificate into sitescope truststore.
f. when prompted, confirm that you trust the bsm server certificate.the bsm server certificate is imported into the sitescope keystore.
tips: n the tool accepts file paths in regular windows format only.
in unix format, where a blank space in a file path is preceded by a backslash (“\”) to indicate that a blank space follows, hp sitescope (11.31) page 216 of 285 deployment guide chapter 23: using the hardening tool you should remove the backslash.
format windows unix file path /user/temp dir/certificate.cer /user/temp\ dir/certificate.cer change to: /user/temp dir/certificate.cer n changes in configuration take effect only after you exit the hardening tool.
how to use the hardening tool to enable fips 140-2 compliant mode you can use the hardening tool to configure sitescope to be fips 140-2 compliant.
fips 140-2 is a cryptographic module validation program, administered by the national institute of standards and technology (nist), that specifies the security requirements for cryptographic modules.
for details, see "enabling fips 140-2 compliant mode" on page 192.
how to use the hardening tool to enable key management for data encryption you can use key management in the hardening tool to change the cryptographic key used for encrypting the persistency data in sitescope.
this is a stronger encryption method than the standard method used in sitescope.
for details, see "how to configure sitescope to use a custom key for data encryption" on page 202.
how to use the hardening tool to configure sitescope and sitescope public api client certificate authentication you use the hardening tool to configure sitescope and sitescope public api client for client certificate authentication as follows: hp sitescope (11.31) page 217 of 285 deployment guide chapter 23: using the hardening tool 1.
run the hardening tool.
for details, see "how to run the hardening tool" on page 209.
2. select the option "configure sitescope and sitescope public api client for client certificate authentication".
3. follow the instructions in the tool.
tips: n if you enable ldap user authentication for sitescope public apis, the username extracted from the api client certificate is authenticated by the ldap server.
n when you are prompted to add a client certificate signing authority to the sitescope server truststore, the certificate is imported into sitescope server truststore and main truststore.
created api configuration files are placed under the script directory in the api_configuration directory.
n the tool accepts file paths in regular windows format only.
in unix format, where a blank space in a file path is preceded by a backslash (“\”) to indicate that a blank space follows, you should remove the backslash.
format windows unix file path /user/temp dir/certificate.cer /user/temp\ dir/certificate.cer change to: /user/temp dir/certificate.cer n changes in configuration take effect only after you exit the hardening tool.
how to use the hardening tool to configure jmx remote access you can use the hardening tool to enable or disable jmx remote access to the sitescope server as follows: hp sitescope (11.31) page 218 of 285 deployment guide chapter 23: using the hardening tool 1.
run the hardening tool.
for details, see "how to run the hardening tool" on page 209.
2. select the option "configure jmx remote access".
3. follow the instructions in the tool.
tip:
changes in configuration take effect only after you exit the hardening tool.
how to use the hardening tool to restore a backed up configuration when you run the hardening tool, the existing sitescope configuration is automatically backed up.
you can use the hardening tool to restore a backed up configuration as follows: 1. run the hardening tool.
for details, see "how to run the hardening tool" on page 209.
2. select the option "restore sitescope configuration from backup".
3. follow the instructions in the tool.
tips: n backup names contain the time and date of the backup.
n changes in configuration take effect only after you exit the hardening tool.
hardening tool limitations/troubleshooting this section describes troubleshooting and limitations when working with the hardening tool.
limitations if sitescope is installed on a non-english operating system, you cannot use the hardening tool to configure sitescope for using tls.
in that case, use the manual procedure described in the appendix section of the hp sitescope deployment guide.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 219 of 285 deployment guide chapter 23: using the hardening tool troubleshooting l the hardening tool does not accept file paths in unix format.
cause: the tool accepts file paths in regular windows format only.
solution: in unix format, where a blank space in a file path is preceded by a backslash (“\”) to indicate that a blank space follows, you should remove the backslash.
format windows unix file path /user/temp dir/certificate.cer /user/temp\ dir/certificate.cer change to: /user/temp dir/certificate.cer l upon exiting the tool, an error message appears notifying that there was a problem copying to a file.
cause: this happens when the configuration tool cannot find one of the created configuration files.
this occurs when the tool is not run from the command line.
in this case, the created files are not placed in the configuration tool directory.
solution: a. in the configuration tool directory, delete any created libraries (for example, api_ configuration, tmp_<number>, bsm_int).
b. open a command line terminal.
c. go to configuration tool directory through the command line.
d. run the configuration tool from the command line.
for details, see "using the hardening tool" on page 208.
l after configuring sitescope authentication, sitescope does not provide an option for an authentication certificate when accessing sitescope through a web browser and login fails.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 220 of 285 deployment guide chapter 23: using the hardening tool cause: sitescope truststores do not contain the certificates of certificate signing authorities (ca certificates).
this causes sitescope not to request client certificates that were signed by those certificate signing authorities.
solution: import ca certificates into sitescope main and server truststores and add the needed ca certificates.
for details, see "importing certificate authority certificates into sitescope truststores" on page 187.
l sitescope public api call exits with numberformatexception.
cause: api call executed with –usessl parameter set to false.
solution: run api call with –usessl parameter set to true.
l sitescope public api call exits with connectexception: connection refused.
cause: api call tries to connect to a port that is not a tls port.
solution: set the –port parameter to tls authentication port 8443.
l sitescope public api call fails with (500) internal server error.
cause: the –login parameter is not set to the correct tls username.
solution: set the –login parameter to sitescope_certificate_authenticated_user.
l sitescope displays the following message when you try to access sitescope through a browser: "the user is not valid sitescope user.
please contact sitescope administrator".
cause: client tls authentication and smart card enforcement are enabled while configuring sitescope for tls authentication, but ldap server is not set in sitescope user management.
solution 1: a. run the hardening tool.
note: if you intend to log in to sitescope by using client certificates only, you must first configure the ldap server in sitescope before performing the hardening procedures.
after hardening sitescope, the user name used for logging in is extracted from the client certificate and is checked against the ldap server, and the following properties are added to the <sitescope root>\groups\master.config file (you should not modify these properties): hp sitescope (11.31) page 221 of 285 deployment guide chapter 23: using the hardening tool o _clientcertificateauthidentitypropertyname.
indicates to sitescope where the user name used for the connection is found in client certificate properties.
o _clientcertificateauthisapirealldapuserrequired.
indicates to sitescope that user name authentication should be done through ldap when calling sitescope apis.
o _clientcertificateauthusernamepropertynameinsubjectfield.
the property under which the user name can be found in client certificate that was used for api call.
b. restore the sitescope configuration that was backed up before running the tool (for details, see "restoring a backed up configuration" on page 188).
c. configure the ldap server.
d. run the hardening tool again.
solution 2: a. open the master.config file at <sitescope root directory>\groups and change the value of the following properties to false: o _clientcertificateauthenabled o _clientcertificateauthisapirealldapuserrequired o _clientcertificateauthsmartcardenforcementenabled b. restart sitescope.
c. configure the ldap server.
d. open the master.config file.
e. change the above properties to their original values.
f. restart sitescope.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 222 of 285 chapter 24: configuration of usgcb (fdcc) compliant desktop the united states government configuration baseline (usgcb), formerly known as the federal desktop core configuration (fdcc), is a standard for desktop configuration that provides guidance on improving and maintaining effective configuration settings focusing primarily on security.
sitescope is certified with usgcb (fdcc) compliant clients.
to enable compliancy, you must add the sitescope url to the trusted sites security zone and to the pop-up allow list.
it is also recommended to allow file downloads.
for more information on usgcb (fdcc), see: l http://usgcb.nist.gov/usgcb/microsoft_content.html l http://nvd.nist.gov/fdcc/index.cfm prerequisites: install the latest jre version supported by sitescope as listed in the "client system requirements" on page 74.
how to enable group policy editor (gpedit.msc) in windows 7: 1. add the sitescope url to the trusted sites security zone: a. open the group policy editor by running the command: run gpedit.msc.
b. navigate to: computer configuration > administrative templates > windows components > internet explorer > internet control panel >
security page: i. ii.
in the setting panel on the right, double-click site to zone assignment list, select the enabled option, and click show.
in the show content dialog box, click add.
in the enter the name of the item to be added box, enter the name of the sitescope server.
for example, http://mysitescope.com.
if you are using sitescope over https, enter https://mysitescope.com.
iii.
in the enter the value if item to be added box, enter the number to denote the zone type: hp sitescope (11.31) page 223 of 285 deployment guide chapter 24: configuration of usgcb (fdcc) compliant desktop value zone type description 1 2 3 4 intranet zone sites on your local network trusted site zone sites that have been added to your trusted sites internet zone sites that are on the internet restricted sites zone sites that have been specifically added to your restricted sites 2.
add the sitescope url to the pop-up allow list.
a. open the group policy editor by running the command: run gpedit.msc.
b. navigate to: computer configuration > administrative templates > windows components > internet explorer: i. ii.
in the setting panel on the right, double-click pop-up allow list, select the enabled option, and click show.
in the show content dialog box, click add.
in the enter the name of the item to be added box, enter the name of the sitescope server.
for example, http://mysitescope.com.
if you are using sitescope over https, enter https://mysitescope.com.
3. allow file downloads (optional, used for log grabber and release notes).
a. open the group policy editor by running the command: run gpedit.msc.
b. navigate to: computer configuration > administrative templates > windows components > internet explorer > security features > restrict file download, and in the setting panel on the right, double-click internet explorer process, and select the disabled option.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 224 of 285 part 5: post-installation: getting started hp sitescope (11.31) page 225 of 285 chapter 25: post-installation administration this chapter includes recommended steps you should perform after installing sitescope.
✓ step register for sitescope support.
for more information, see "getting started roadmap" on page 42.
to improve sitescope scalability and performance, we recommend installing microsoft hotfixes.
for more information, see "install microsoft hotfixes" on page 229.
if you are upgrading from an earlier version of sitescope, use the configuration tool to transfer monitor and group configuration data from the older sitescope installation to the new installation.
for more information on using the configuration tool, see "using the sitescope configuration tool" on page 146.
log on to the sitescope web interface using a web browser.
for more information, see "connecting to sitescope" on page 233.
new installations are automatically activated with the community license which enables using sitescope with limited functionality for an unlimited period of time.
if you are upgrading your sitescope edition to one that provides full sitescope functionality, you can enter your sitescope license information during installation, or post-installation in the general preferences page, as described in the general preferences section of using sitescope in the sitescope help.
for license details, see "sitescope licenses" on page 28.
create a user name and password for the sitescope administrator account.
this is the default account that is active when the product is installed.
it has full privileges to manage sitescope and is the account that all users who access the product use unless you restrict the account.
create and configure other user accounts based on the requirements of the organization.
for details, see the user management preferences section in using sitescope in the sitescope help.
if no user name and password are defined for the administrator user, sitescope skips the login page and logs in automatically.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 226 of 285 deployment guide chapter 25: post-installation administration ✓ step configure the sitescope email preferences email server with an administrators email address and specify a mail server that sitescope can use to forward email messages and alerts to users.
for details, see the email preferences section in using sitescope in the sitescope help.
configure connection profiles for the remote servers you want to be able to monitor.
specify the connection method to use in accordance with your security requirements.
for details, see the remote servers section in using sitescope in the sitescope help.
if necessary, adjust log preferences to set how many days of monitor data are retained on the sitescope server.
by default, sitescope deletes logs older than 40 days.
if you plan to have monitor data exported to an external database, prepare the database, the necessary drivers, and configure the log preferences as applicable.
for details, see the log preferences section in using sitescope in the sitescope help.
install middleware drivers for connectivity with remote databases and applications for those monitors that require drivers.
when using sitescope as a data collector for business service management (bsm), configure the bsm integration.
for details, see the working with bsm section in using sitescope in the sitescope help.
when using sitescope to send events or report metrics for use in hp operations manager (hpom) or operations management in bsm, configure the hp operations manager integration.
for details, see "integrating sitescope with hp operations manager products" available from the hp software integrations site.
outline group and monitor organization based on the requirements and constraints identified in your assessment of the business system infrastructure.
create and develop templates to help speed the deployment of monitoring using standardized group structure, naming conventions, and configuration settings.
for details, see the user-defined templates and solution templates sections in using sitescope in the sitescope help.
build dependencies between groups and key monitors to help control redundant alerting.
for details, see the working with sitescope groups section in using sitescope in the sitescope help.
roll out sitescope to business stakeholders and system administrators.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 227 of 285 deployment guide chapter 25: post-installation administration after the sitescope system is up and running with defined users and incoming monitor data, begin the process of educating business and systems users on how to access and use sitescope reporting and alerting functionality.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 228 of 285 chapter 26: install microsoft hotfixes to improve sitescope scalability and performance, we recommend installing the following microsoft hotfixes after installing sitescope: hotfix download description https://support.microsoft.com/en- us/kb/2847018 https://support.microsoft.com/en- us/kb/2775511 https://support.microsoft.com/en-
us/kb/942589 install the latest microsoft mrxsmb.sys and mrxsmb10.sys or mrxsmb20.sys patch files on the sitescope server to prevent performance issues and monitor skips when running multiple perfex-based monitors against the same host.
install the microsoft hotfix to use the microsoft exchange monitor on 64-bit version of windows 2003, windows 2008, or windows xp (since a 32-bit application cannot access the system32 folder on a computer that is running a 64-bit version of windows server 2003 or 2008).
https://support.microsoft.com/en- us/kb/961435 install the microsoft hotfix on the target windows system to enable monitoring microsoft windows server 2008 using wmi.
in addition, we recommend you perform the steps in the microsoft knowledge base articles below to avoid issues with permissions and missing or corrupted counter values: microsoft knowledge base article issue / description https://support.microsoft.com/en-
us/kb/300702 https://support.microsoft.com/en- us/kb/164018 https://support.microsoft.com/en- us/kb/295292 https://support.microsoft.com/en- us/kb/300956 unable to connect to machine: monitoring performance objects on windows remote server requires that a user have specific access permissions as described in the microsoft knowledge base for article 300702 and article 164018.
wmi permissions: to configure the wmi service for remote monitoring, the user entered on the wmi remote server must have permissions to read statistics remotely from wmi namespace root\cimv2.
missing/corrupted performance counter library values: if the required performance counter library values are missing or are corrupted, follow the instructions in microsoft knowledge base article kb300956 to manually rebuild them.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 229 of 285 chapter 27: getting started with sitescope this chapter includes: "starting the sitescope service overview" below "starting and stopping the sitescope service on windows platform" below "starting and stopping the sitescope process on linux platforms" on the next page "connecting to sitescope" on page 233 "sitescope classic interface" on page 233 "troubleshooting and limitations" on page 234 l l l l l l starting the sitescope service overview the sitescope process is started on all platforms during installation.
l on windows platforms, sitescope is added as a service that is set to restart automatically if the server is rebooted.
l on linux platforms, whenever you reboot the server where sitescope is installed, you must restart the sitescope process.
you can start and stop the sitescope process manually as necessary using the steps described in this section.
starting and stopping the sitescope service on windows platform sitescope is installed as a service on microsoft windows platforms.
by default, the sitescope service is set to restart automatically whenever the server is rebooted.
you can start and stop the sitescope service manually by using the services control panel.
to start or stop the sitescope service using services control panel: 1. open the services control panel by selecting start >
settings > control panel > administrative tools > services.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 230 of 285 deployment guide chapter 27: getting started with sitescope 2.
select sitescope in the list of services and right-click to display the action menu.
3. select start or stop as applicable from the action menu.
netstart and netstop commands you can also start and stop the sitescope service by using the netstart and netstop commands.
to start the sitescope service using netstart: 1. open a command line window on the server where sitescope is installed.
2. run the netstart utility using the following syntax: net start sitescope to stop the sitescope service using netstop: 1. open a command line window on the server where sitescope is running.
2. run the netstop utility using the following syntax: net stop sitescope starting and stopping the sitescope process on linux platforms sitescope has an autostart process that automatically starts sitescope when the system starts, and stops sitescope when the system is stopped.
note that if you change the permissions on sitescope executables (start, stop), you must also change the permissions in the /etc/init.d/sitescope file as described in "to enable the service to start as a non-root user of sitescope:" below.
you can also start and stop sitescope manually by using the shell scripts supplied with the product.
you can automatically restart sitescope when a server is rebooted by using an init.d script.
note: while sitescope must be installed on linux from a root user account, after it has been installed it can be run from a non-root user account.
for details, see "configuring a non-root user account with permissions to run sitescope" on page 48.
to enable the service to start as a non-root user of sitescope: hp sitescope (11.31) page 231 of 285 deployment guide chapter 27: getting started with sitescope 1.
stop sitescope (if it is running) by running the command: /etc/init.d/sitescope stop 2. update the /etc/init.d/sitescope file as follows: a. add su sitecope -c in front of the start command as follows: su sitescope -c
$sis_dir/start b. add su sitecope -c in front of the stop command as follows: su sitescope -c
$sis_dir/stop 3.
if sitescope was previously running as root, change ownership of files to the right non-root user: % chown sitescope /opt/hp/sitescope/ -r 4. start sitescope by running the command: /etc/init.d/sitescope start to manually start the sitescope process on linux:
1. open a terminal window on the server where sitescope is installed.
2. run the start command shell script using the following syntax: <installpath>/sitescope/start alternatively, on linux/unix machines you can run service sitescope start in any directory.
to manually stop the sitescope process on linux: 1. open a terminal window on the server where sitescope is running.
2. run the stop command shell script using the following syntax: <installpath>/sitescope/stop alternatively, on linux/unix machines you can run service sitescope stop in any directory.
in each of the commands above, replace <installpath> with the path where sitescope is installed.
for example, if you installed sitescope in the /usr directory, the command to stop sitescope would be: /usr/sitescope/stop hp sitescope (11.31) page 232 of 285 deployment guide chapter 27: getting started with sitescope connecting to sitescope sitescope is designed as a web application.
this means that you view and manage sitescope using a web browser with access to the sitescope server.
sitescope is installed to answer on two ports: 8080 and 8888.
if there is another service configured to use these ports, the installation process attempts to configure sitescope to answer on another port.
on windows platforms, the installation process also adds a link to sitescope in the start > all programs menu for sitescope.
the start menu folder is selected during the installation procedure.
to access sitescope: enter the sitescope address in a web browser.
the default address is: http://localhost:8080/sitescope.
on windows platforms, you can also access sitescope from the start menu by clicking start > all programs >
hp sitescope > open hp sitescope.
if the sitescope port is changed after installing sitescope, the port is updated in the open hp sitescope link.
the first time sitescope is deployed, there is a delay for initialization of the interface elements.
sitescope opens to the dashboard view.
note: l to restrict access to this account and its privileges, you need to edit the administrator account profile to include a user login name and password.
sitescope then displays a login dialogue before sitescope can be accessed.
for information on editing the administrator account profile, see the user management preferences section in using sitescope in the sitescope help.
l when viewing sitescope from another machine, it is recommended to use a machine that has the latest supported java runtime environment installed.
sitescope classic interface the sitescope classic interface that was available in earlier versions of sitescope using the url http://<sitescope_host>:8888, is no longer available for managing sitescope.
you can still access specific pages in the classic interface if they are listed in the _serverfilter property in the master.config file.
pages listed by default include the monitor summary and alert report pages.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 233 of 285 deployment guide chapter 27: getting started with sitescope note: you should not remove sitescope classic interface pages that are enabled by default, as this may cause some functionality to fail.
troubleshooting and limitations this section contains troubleshooting and limitations for the following issues when logging on to sitescope: specific startup issues: "sitescope does not start and an error message is displayed" below "sitescope applet loading fails with a "noclassdeffound" exception" on the next page "problems loading applet from a 64-bit machine" on the next page "sitescope hangs when opening the same sitescope server on more than one tab in a browser window" on the next page "the sitescope menu bar opens but the applet fails to start, and you see a blank screen, an error, or an "x" image" on the next page "backing up and recovering a sitescope installation if unable to start sitescope" on page 236 "sitescope does not open in firefox" on page 238 l l l l l l l sitescope does not start and an error message is displayed if you encounter an error message such as "the java runtime environment cannot be loaded", or any other unknown error while starting the sitescope applet, perform the steps below.
after each step, try to reopen sitescope.
if sitescope fails again, proceed to the next step.
1. close all the browser’s windows.
2. end all remaining browser processes (if any remained) using windows task manager.
3. clean the local java applet cache.
select start > control panel >
java.
in the general tab, click settings > delete files and then click ok.
4. clean the local java applet cache by deleting the content of the following folder: c:\documents and settings\<user_name>\application data\sun\java\deployment\cache.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 234 of 285 deployment guide chapter 27: getting started with sitescope sitescope applet loading fails with a "noclassdeffound" exception if applet loading fails with a "noclassdeffound" exception, select the keep temporary files on my computer option in your client java configuration (control panel > java > general tab > temporary internet files > settings).
if security issues require it, delete the temporary files manually when you finished using the sitescope applet: 1. close the sitescope applet.
2. select start > control panel > java > general tab.
3. in the temporary internet files section, click settings, and then click delete files.
problems loading applet from a 64-bit machine when running sitescope on a 64-bit machine, make sure to use a browser version that matches your jre: jre 64-bit jre 32-bit jre browser internet explorer (64-bit) internet explorer (32-bit) sitescope hangs when opening the same sitescope server on more than one tab in a browser window when opening the same sitescope server user interface in more than one tab of a browser window, sitescope hangs when trying to navigate between the sitescope server tabs.
possible solution: l close the redundant tabs, and make sure that only one tab is open for the same sitescope server user interface.
l alternatively, open a new browser window.
the sitescope menu bar opens but the applet fails to start, and you see a blank screen, an error, or an "x" image this may occur if the java control panel is not configured to use the web browser.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 235 of 285 deployment guide chapter 27: getting started with sitescope possible solution:
1. click start > control panel > java.
in the general tab, click network settings, select the direct connection option, and then click ok.
2. in the advanced tab, expand the default java for browsers folder (or <applet> tag support if you are using java 5).
make sure that microsoft internet explorer and mozilla family are selected.
click apply and then click ok.
3. restart your browser.
backing up and recovering a sitescope installation if unable to start sitescope to recover the sitescope configuration data if sitescope goes down and you are unable to restart it, you should make a backup of your current sitescope installation directory and all of the subdirectories within the directory before installing a new version of sitescope.
you can back up the current sitescope installation using the configuration tool to export sitescope data to a .zip file, or you can manually back up the required files.
after reinstalling sitescope, the monitor configuration data can be copied into sitescope using the configuration tool (if you used the tool to make a backup of your installation directory), or by deleting from the new installation directory all the folders and files that you backed up, and then copying the backed up folders and files to the installation directory.
to back up the sitescope installation: 1. stop sitescope.
note: although it is not mandatory to stop sitescope, it is recommended to do so before making a back up.
2. make a backup of your current sitescope installation directory either by: n using the configuration tool to export your configuration into a .zip file.
for details, see "using the sitescope configuration tool" on page 146.
n copy the following folders and files from the sitescope installation to your backup destination: hp sitescope (11.31) page 236 of 285 deployment guide chapter 27: getting started with sitescope directory \cache \conf\ems description contains data samples that were not reported to business service management if business service management was down.
contains key configuration and control files used with integration monitor types.
this is only applicable if you use sitescope as an agent reporting to another business service management application.
\conf\integration contains topology files used for integrations with business service management.
\discovery\scripts\custom contains custom discovery scripts.
\groups \htdocs \logs \persistency \scripts \scripts.remote contains monitor, alert, report, and other critical configuration data needed for sitescope operation.
contains scheduled reports and user-customized style sheets for the sitescope interface.
backup this directory and copy it to the sitescope directory (within the same sitescope versions) to avoid damaging the report pages and to see old reports.
this folder cannot be backed up when the configuration is imported into a newer sitescope version.
contains a number of logs including date coded logs of monitoring data.
selectively back up the most recent monitoring data log files along with the other log types in this directory.
you may also want to back up the error.log, runmonitor.log, access.log, alert.log, and monitorcount.log logs for historical continuity.
this is the main persistency directory of the product.
all the defined monitors, groups, alerts, templates, and many other sitescope entities are found in this directory.
contains scripts used by script monitors.
contains command scripts used by script monitors to trigger other scripts on remote servers.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 237 of 285 deployment guide chapter 27: getting started with sitescope directory \templates.
* description includes data and templates used to customize monitor function, alert content, and other features.
the group of subdirectories all begin with the name templates.
example: templates.mail, templates.os, templates.webscripts \web- inf\lib\peregrine.jar file that might have been altered (regenerated) when configuring the hp service manager integration.
to recover the sitescope installation: 1. perform a new installation of sitescope.
for details, see "installation workflow" on page 100.
2. after installing sitescope: n if you used the configuration tool to make a backup of your current sitescope installation directory, use the configuration tool to import the previously created .zip file.
for details, see "using the sitescope configuration tool" on page 146.
n if you manually created a back up, delete all the folders and files listed above from the new installation directory, and then copy the backed up folders and files to the installation directory.
sitescope does not open in firefox problem: sitescope does not open in the firefox browser if smart card enforcement is disabled, but client certificate authentication is enabled.
solution: to open sitescope in the firefox browser when smart card enforcement is disabled, but client certificate authentication is enabled, see "using firefox when client certification is enabled" on page 186.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 238 of 285 appendixes hp sitescope (11.31) page 239 of 285 appendix a: integrating iis with sitescope's tomcat server to integrate internet information server (iis) with the apache tomcat server included with sitescope, you need to make changes to the configuration files used by the apache tomcat server and create the virtual directory in the corresponding web site object in the iis configuration.
this section includes: "configuring the apache tomcat server files" below "configuring iis" on page 243 l l configuring the apache tomcat server files to enable iis integration with the apache tomcat server, you must edit the configuration files for the apache tomcat server included with sitescope.
to configure the apache tomcat server files: 1. download the latest version of java connector jk from the apache download site for connector files from: http://tomcat.apache.org/download-connectors.cgi 2. copy the isapi_redirect.dll file to the <tomcat installation>\bin\win32 directory.
by default, a tomcat server is installed as part of the sitescope installation at c:\sitescope\tomcat.
create the win32 directory if it does not exist.
3. perform one of the following: n create a configuration file in the same directory as the isapi_redirect.dll file, and name it isapi_redirect.properties. example of the isapi_redirect.properties file: # configuration file for the jakarta isapi redirector # the path to the isapi redirector extension, relative to the website # this must be in a virtual directory with execute privileges hp sitescope (11.31) page 240 of 285 deployment guide appendix a: integrating iis with sitescope's tomcat server extension_uri=/jakarta/isapi_redirect.dll # full path to the log file for the isapi redirector log_file=c:\sitescope\tomcat\logs\isapi.log # log level (debug, info, warn, error or trace) log_level=info # full path to the workers.properties file worker_file=c:\sitescope\tomcat\conf\workers.properties.minimal # full path to the uriworkermap.properties file worker_mount_file=c:\sitescope\tomcat\conf\uriworkermap.properties this configuration points to the log file, which it is recommended to put under the <sitescope root directory>\tomcat\logs directory, and the worker and worker mount files, which should be stored under the <sitescope root directory>\tomcat\conf directory.
n add the same configuration entries (see above) to the registry at path: hkey_local_ machine\software\apache software foundation\jakarta isapi redirector\1.0 4.
create the sitescope workers file, named workers.properties.minimal, under the <sitescope root directory>\tomcat\conf directory.
example of the sitescope workers file: # workers.properties.minimal - # # this file provides minimal jk configuration # properties needed to # connect to tomcat.
# # defining a worker named ajp13w and of type ajp13 # note that the name and the type do not have to # match.
worker.list=ajp13w worker.ajp13w.type=ajp13 worker.ajp13w.host=localhost worker.ajp13w.port=8009 #end note: n worker.ajp13w.port depends on the tomcat version being used.
open <sitescope root directory>\tomcat\conf\server.xml and search for the string <connector port= to hp sitescope (11.31) page 241 of 285 deployment guide appendix a: integrating iis with sitescope's tomcat server determine the port which this tomcat version is using.
n if you are configuring sitescope to integrate with siteminder, modify the redirect port in the <!-- define an ajp 1.3 connector on port 8009 --> section of the server.xml file from: <connector port="18009" <!-- uriencoding="utf-8" enablelookups="false" redirectport="8443" protocol="ajp/1.3" /> --> to <connector port="18009" uriencoding="utf-8" enablelookups="false" redirectport="80" protocol="ajp/1.3" /> n if iis and tomcat are not on the same machine, change the host attribute in workers.properties.minimal to point to the other machine.
5. create the sitescope workers mount file under the <sitescope root directory>\tomcat\conf directory.
example of the sitescope workers file named uriworkermap.properties, as in the configuration example above: # uriworkermap.properties - iis # # this file provides sample mappings for example: # ajp13w worker defined in workermap.properties.minimal # the general syntax for this file is: # [url]=[worker name] /sitescope
=ajp13w /sitescope/*=ajp13w #end the new syntax combines the two rules for sitescope into one rule: /sitescope/*=ajp13w tomcat log output is written to the <sitescope root dir>\logs\tomcat.log file.
settings for the log file can be configured from the <sitescope root dir>\tomcat\common\classes\log4j.properties file.
troubleshooting problem: when upgrading from and earlier version of sitescope, the tomcat configuration server.xml file in the <sitescope root directory>\tomcat\conf directory is overwritten and any hp sitescope (11.31) page 242 of 285 deployment guide appendix a: integrating iis with sitescope's tomcat server modifications made to that file are removed (for example, changes made when configuring sitescope to use ssl).
solution: to restore these modifications, you must reapply them to the server.xml file after performing the upgrade.
a. stop sitescope.
b. replace the following files: replace file with <sitescope root directory>\java\lib\security\c acerts <sitescope root directory>\installation\hpsis1122\backup\java\lib\se curity\cacerts <sitescope root directory>\java\lib\security\ja va.security <sitescope root directory>\installation\hpsis1122\backup\java\lib\se curity\java.security <sitescope root directory>\java\lib\security\ja vaws.policy
<sitescope root directory>\installation\hpsis1122\backup\java\lib\se curity\javaws.policy <sitescope root directory>\java\lib\security\ja va.policy <sitescope root directory>\installation\hpsis1122\backup\java\lib\se curity\java.policy c. manually reapply all hardening and other customization changes by copying them from <sitescope root directory>\installation\hpsis1122\backup\tomcat\conf\server.xml to <sitescope root directory>\tomcat\conf\server.xml.
configuring iis after you make changes to the configuration files used by the tomcat server, you need to create the virtual directory in the corresponding web site object in the iis configuration.
to configure iis: 1. from the windows start menu, click settings >
control panel > administrative tools > internet information services (iis) manager.
2. in the right pane, right-click <local computer name>\web
sites\<your web site name>, and hp sitescope (11.31) page 243 of 285 deployment guide appendix a: integrating iis with sitescope's tomcat server click new\virtual directory.
rename it jakarta, and set local path to the directory with isapi_ redirect.dll.
3.
right click <your web site name> and click properties.
4. click the isapi filters tab, and then click add.
in the filter name column, select jakarta, and browse to isapi_redirect.dll.
the filter is added, but at this stage it is still inactive.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 244 of 285 deployment guide appendix a: integrating iis with sitescope's tomcat server click apply.
5. right-click <local machine name>\web
service extensions
and click add new web service extension.
the new web service extension dialog box opens.
6. in the extension name box, enter the name jakarta, and under required files browse to the isapi_redirect.dll file.
select set extension status to allowed.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 245 of 285 deployment guide appendix a: integrating iis with sitescope's tomcat server click ok. 7. restart the iis web server, and try to access the application through the web service.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 246 of 285 appendix b: integrating sitescope with siteminder sitescope can be integrated with siteminder, a security access management solution, to leverage customer's user and access management configurations.
this section includes: "understanding integration with siteminder" below "integration requirements" on the next page "the integration process" on the next page "configuring the siteminder policy server" on page 249 "configuring sitescope for using siteminder" on page 251 "configuring iis" on page 251 "configure iis as reverse proxy using application request routing (arr) module" on page 251 "siteminder agent installation and configuration " on page 255 "defining permissions for the different sitescope roles" on page 261 "logging on to sitescope" on page 261 "notes and guidelines" on page 261 l l l l l l l l l l l understanding integration with siteminder the following diagram illustrates how sitescope integrates with siteminder to authenticate and authorize sitescope users.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 247 of 285 deployment guide appendix b: integrating sitescope with siteminder in this architecture, a siteminder agent is configured on the iis web server which is placed in front of sitescope's tomcat application server.
the siteminder agent must reside on a web server.
the iis web server is connected to the siteminder policy server that manages all sitescope users (over an ldap or any other similar repository).
the siteminder agent intercepts all sitescope's related traffic, and checks the user’s credentials.
the user’s credentials are sent to the siteminder policy server for authentication and authorization.
if siteminder authenticates the user, it sends sitescope a token (using a special http header) that describes the exact user that managed to log on and pass siteminder's authorization.
note: it is recommended that the sitescope client, iis web server, and the sitescope’s tomcat application server are configured on the same machine.
integration requirements this section displays the minimum system requirements for integrating sitescope with siteminder.
operating system, web server windows 2003 standard/enterprise sp1(iis 5.0, iis 6.0), windows 2008 (iis 7.0, iis 8.0) application server tomcat 5.0.x java connector java connector jk-1.2.21 the integration process this section describes the siteminder integration process.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 248 of 285 deployment guide appendix b: integrating sitescope with siteminder to integrate sitescope with siteminder:
1. prepare and configure the siteminder policy server.
your siteminder administrator needs to prepare the siteminder policy server for installing the web agent, install the web agent on the iis web server, and configure the web agent.
in addition, your siteminder administrator needs to configure the siteminder policy server.
for the recommended siteminder configuration details, see "configuring the siteminder policy server" below.
2. configure sitescope for using siteminder.
to enable sitescope to integrate with siteminder, you need to make changes to the configuration files used by the tomcat server.
for details, see "configuring the apache tomcat server files" on page 240.
3. configure iis.
you need to create the virtual directory in the corresponding web site object in the iis configuration.
for details, see "configuring iis" on page 243.
4. define permissions for the different sitescope roles.
after you enable the siteminder integration, you must define the permissions for the different roles in sitescope.
for details, see "defining permissions for the different sitescope roles" on page 261.
configuring the siteminder policy server (applicable to iis versions 5.0 and 6.0 only) you configure the siteminder policy server by creating a sitescope realm object, two sitescope rules objects for authentication and forwarding the cookie with additional attributes, a sitescope response object that transfers the additional ldap attributes to sitescope, and by adding sitescope rules and responses to the security policy object.
before creating a sitescope realm object on the policy server, make sure that: l a special administrator above a domain (that in turn is bound to one or more user directories) has been configured.
l one or more user directories objects have been configured.
these objects represent the users in the ldap directory, or any other repository.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 249 of 285 deployment guide appendix b: integrating sitescope with siteminder l you have defined an authentication scheme.
a domain is connected to one or more of user directory objects.
there is no need to create a special domain for the realm.
you can use an existing domain.
to configure the siteminder policy server: 1. log on to siteminder administration.
2. create a realm and enter the following information: n name.
enter a name for the realm.
for example, sitescope realm.
n resource filter.
enter /sitescope.
everything under sitescope is part of our realm.
3. right-click the new realm and click create rule under realm.
n create a rule for authentication purposes.
enter a meaningful name for the rule, such as sitescope rule.
in the action section, select the web agent action option and choose all http request schemes (get, post and put).
n create a second rule for forwarding cookies and other attributes to sitescope.
enter a meaningful name for the rule, such as users role.
in the action section, select the authentication events option and select onauthaccept from the drop-down list.
4. create a sitescope response object to transfer the additional ldap attributes to sitescope with the relevant authentication information.
a. right-click responses to open the response properties window.
b. enter a meaningful name for the response.
for example, sitescope role.
c. under the attribute list section, click the create button to open a new window to configure an attribute list.
d. e. in the attribute kind section, select the user attribute option.
in the attribute fields section, choose sitescope_role as a variable name, and choose the attribute name to be the chosen field from the predefined user directory to be sent in the header to sitescope.
this is the user directory attribute to be sent on authentication.
note: if you are using ldap group objects or a nested group object to define the hp sitescope (11.31) page 250 of 285 deployment guide appendix b: integrating sitescope with siteminder sitescope role, special siteminder variables should be used for the attribute name field.
you should use the sm_usergroups variable for regular groups and sm_ usernestedgroups if you want the sitescope_role http header to contain the nested groups' information.
5. add sitescope rules and responses to the security policy object.
a. click the policies option to create a new security policy.
b. enter a meaningful name for the policy.
for example, sitescope policy.
c. click the users tab and add or remove the entities to which the policy applies.
(you can choose entities only from the user directories that are part of the same domain of the realm.)
d. click the rules tab and choose the two rules described in step 3, users role and sitescope rule.
in addition, add the sitescope role response that was defined earlier to be the response of the users role in step 4. configuring sitescope for using siteminder to enable sitescope to integrate with siteminder, you need to make changes to the configuration files used by the tomcat server.
for information on configuring the tomcat server files, see "configuring the apache tomcat server files" on page 240.
configuring iis (applicable for iis versions 5.0 and 6.0 only) after you make changes to the configuration files used by the tomcat server, you need to configure iis.
for information on configuring iis, see "configuring iis" on page 243.
configure iis as reverse proxy using application request routing (arr) module (applicable to iis versions 7.0 and 8.0 only) hp sitescope (11.31) page 251 of 285 deployment guide appendix b: integrating sitescope with siteminder prerequisites l download and install the web platform and url rewrite package from the location: http://www.microsoft.com/web/gallery/install.aspx?appid=urlrewrite2 l add iis role using default settings.
l enable isapi filters and isapi extensions.
steps to install the arr module you can install the arr module using either one of the options: option 1 you can install the arr module directly from the location: http://www.microsoft.com/web/gallery/install.aspx?appid=arrv3_0.
note: you might have to disable the options ie esc and run as administrator.
option 2 install the arr module from the web platform and url rewrite package installer with the following steps: 1.
click the installer to open the web platform installer dialog box.
2. on the top right corner, search for the arr module using the string "arr" in the search bar.
3. select application request routing 3.0 and click add.
steps to configure iis as reverse proxy to configure iis as reverse proxy using the arr module, follow the steps: 1. from the windows start menu, click settings > control panel > administrative tools > internet information services (iis) manager.
2. on the left pane, right-click and select create server farm.
the add server window opens.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 252 of 285 deployment guide appendix b: integrating sitescope with siteminder 3. enter sitescope server details: n type the sitescope fqdn name in the server address box.
n expand advanced settings and applicationrequestroute.
n change the http/https port to match your sitescope port (default port is 8080).
n click add and then finish.
the rewrite rules dialog box opens.
4. you are prompted to create rewrite rule.
click yes if this is the first time you are creating the rule else click no and edit the existing url rewrite rule to use the new server farm.
5. enable proxy with the following steps: a. select the main tree node (server name) > application request routing cache (double- click) > server proxy settings.
b. check the option enable proxy.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 253 of 285 deployment guide appendix b: integrating sitescope with siteminder c. verify that http version = pass through.
d. verify the option reverse rewrite host in response headers is enabled.
e. click apply.
f. select server farms and then select the server farm you created.
g. click proxy.
h. change time-out to '60'.
i. enable the option reverse rewrite host in response headers.
j. click apply.
6. select main tree node (server name) edit url rewrite rule to set pattern: a. select your server from the drop-down and select url rewrite.
b. select the rule and click edit.
c. in the match url box, select the following: o requested url=matches the pattern o using = regular expressions o
set pattern = (^sitescope(.*))
d. verify that you are using the correct server farm.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 254 of 285 deployment guide appendix b: integrating sitescope with siteminder e. click apply.
7. close the iis management console and restart it.
8. test if the url opens to sitescope home page: http://<iismachine>/sitescope/ siteminder agent installation and configuration (applicable to iis versions 7.0 and 8.0 only) prerequisites l 64-bit siteminder web agent is required since iis is a 64-bit process.
l refer to the siteminder documentation for detailed instructions for creating domain and configuring sitescope.
steps to configure siteminder perform the following steps from the siteminder administrative ui: 1.
from the siteminder administrative ui, select policies > domain > domains.
2. create a domain for sitescope or use an existing domain based on your organization policy.
3. add a user directory.
4. create a new realm.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 255 of 285 deployment guide appendix b: integrating sitescope with siteminder 5.
create the following rules: n regular rule that allows get, post, put traffic to sitescope protected by form login page space.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 256 of 285 deployment guide appendix b: integrating sitescope with siteminder n rule that sends “authentication events” > action “onauthaccept”.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 257 of 285 deployment guide appendix b: integrating sitescope with siteminder 6.
create a response rule.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 258 of 285 deployment guide appendix b: integrating sitescope with siteminder 7. set up user attribute that you want to use as a logon unique identifier (uid).
hp sitescope (11.31) page 259 of 285 deployment guide appendix b: integrating sitescope with siteminder 8.
assign the rule to the sitescope domain.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 260 of 285 deployment guide appendix b: integrating sitescope with siteminder you can run the web agent configuration wizard on sitescope server.
for detailed instructions, see the siteminder installation guide.
defining permissions for the different sitescope roles after you enable the siteminder integration, you must define the permissions for the different roles in sitescope (using the sitescope regular users permissions model).
the association of the users to these roles is done outside of sitescope, such as in ldap groups.
when a new sitescope user is added, it only has to be defined in siteminder, since the user automatically inherits the permissions from the relevant sitescope role.
note: you must ensure that the sitescope user account used by siteminder does not require a password, otherwise siteminder is unable to log on.
for details on creating user accounts, see the user management preferences section in using sitescope in the sitescope help.
logging on to sitescope when a user attempts to log on to sitescope, siteminder intercepts the request.
if it authenticates the user’s credentials, it sends an assigned sitescope user name and role (group) to sitescope (for example, user: fred, role: accounting).
if sitescope fails to recognize the name as a valid user name, but it recognizes the role, the user is logged on to sitescope using the role (in this instance, user: accounting).
to logon to sitescope: open your web browser and type the following url: http://<iis_machine_name>/sitescope.
note: if iis and sitescope reside on the same machine, you should connect to the default port 80, and not port 8080.
after siteminder successfully authenticates the user and logs on to sitescope, sitescope opens directly to the dashboard view.
notes and guidelines l the names of all users logged in to sitescope are listed in the audit log, which is located in the <sitescope root directory>\logs directory.
this is the case even when a user is logged in under a hp sitescope (11.31) page 261 of 285 deployment guide appendix b: integrating sitescope with siteminder role name.
for example, if user fred is logged on under a role because sitescope did not recognize fred as a valid user but recognized the role, all operations are still listed with user name fred in the audit log.
l you can specify a page where the browser is redirected after logging out the siteminder environment (this is the page that opens after you click the logout button in sitescope).
to enable the logout page, open the master.config file located in <sitescope root directory>\groups, and add the following line: _siteminderredirectpagelogout=<url_to_go_to_after_logout> l the user account that siteminder uses to log on to sitescope must not require a password, otherwise siteminder is unable to log on.
for details on setting up a user account in sitescope, see the user management preferences section in using sitescope in the sitescope help.
l to prevent users trying to access sitescope directly using the sitescope url, you should consider disabling http port 8080 and 8888 on the tomcat server during sitescope installation.
l to prevent users from being logged out of sitescope after 30 minutes of inactivity in the web browser, change the "_keepalivefromjsp=" property to "=true" in the master.config file.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 262 of 285 appendix c: manually configuring sitescope for using a secure connection you can manually configure sitescope to using a secure connection to restrict access to the sitescope interface.
we recommend that you use the hardening tool to configure sitescope for using ssl.
for details, "using the hardening tool" on page 208.
this section includes: l l l l l l "preparing sitescope for using tls" below "manually configuring sitescope for tls on tomcat" on page 268 "manually configuring sitescope for mutual tls configuration" on page 270 "manually configuring sitescope to connect to bsm server with tls deployment" on page 271 "manually configuring sitescope to connect to a bsm server that requires a client certificate" on page 272 "manually configuring the topology discovery agent in sitescope when bsm server requires a client certificate" on page 275 preparing sitescope for using tls sitescope is shipped with keytool.exe.
keytool is a key and certificate management utility.
it enables users to administer their own public/private key pairs and associated certificates for authentication using digital signatures.
it also enables users to cache the public keys of other persons and organizations they communicate with.
this is installed in the <sitescope install path>\sitescope\java\bin directory.
caution: when you create, request, and install a digital certificate, make a note of the parameters and command line arguments that you use in each step of the process.
it is very important that you use the same values throughout the procedure.
note: hp sitescope (11.31) page 263 of 285 deployment guide appendix c: manually configuring sitescope for using a secure connection l sitescope uses keystores and truststores in jks format only.
l to prepare the sitescope classic interface for use with tls, you must configure both the tomcat server (see "manually configuring sitescope for tls on tomcat" on page 268) and the classic interface engine (refer to the instructions in "accessing sitescope reports and classic user interface using https" on page 279).
you can find out more about keytool at the oracle web site (http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/tools/windows/keytool.html).
this section includes the following topics: "using a certificate from a certificate authority" below "using a self-signed certificate" on page 267 l l using a certificate from a certificate authority you can use a digital certificate issued by a certificate authority.
to use this option, you need a digital certificate that can be imported into the key storage file used by keytool.
if your organization does not currently have a digital certificate for this purpose, you need to make a request to a certificate authority to issue you a certificate.
you use the following steps to create a keystore file and a digital certificate request.
to use a certificate from a certificate authority: 1. obtain the root certificate (and any other intermediate certificate) from a certificate authority.
2. import the root certificate (and any other intermediate certificate) to <sitescope root directory>\java\lib\security\cacerts from the user interface or by running the following command: keytool -import -alias yourca -file c:\cacertificate.cer -keystore ..\lib\security\cacerts -storepass changeit 3.
remove the serverkeystore file that is located in the <sitescope root directory>\groups directory.
you can delete it or simply move it to a different directory.
4. create a key pair by running the following command line from the <sitescope root directory>\java\bin directory: hp sitescope (11.31) page 264 of 285 deployment guide appendix c: manually configuring sitescope for using a secure connection keytool -genkey -dname "cn=www.yourdomain.com, ou=yourdepartment, o=yourcompanyname, l=yourlocation, st=yourstate, c=yourcountrycode" -alias youralias -keypass keypass -keystore ..
\..\groups\serverkeystore -storepass keypass -keyalg
"rsa" -validity valdays note: n this command and all others you use must be entered on a single line.
the line is divided here to fit on this page.
n the serverkeystore string used when generating the certificates must be typed in the same case as specified in the documentation, otherwise it will fail when using sitescope failover with ssl.
n the private key password and keystore password must be the same to avoid getting an ioexception: cannot recover key error.
this command creates a file called serverkeystore in the <sitescope root directory>\groups directory.
sitescope uses this file to store the certificates used in your secure sessions.
make sure you keep a backup copy of this file in another location.
guidelines and limitations n the value of a -dname option must be in the following order where the italicized values are replaced by values of your choosing.
the keywords are abbreviations for the following: cn = commonname - common name of a person (for example, warren pease) ou = organizationunit - small organizational unit (for example, netadmin)
o = organizationname - large organization name (for example, acme-systems, inc.)
l = localityname - locality (city) name (for example, palo alto)
st = statename - state or province name (for example, california) c
= country - two-letter country code (for example, us) n the subcomponents within the -dname (distinguished name string) variable are case- insensitive and they are order-sensitive, although you do not have to include all of the subcomponents.
the -dname variable should represent your company and the cn is the domain name of the web server on which sitescope is installed.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 265 of 285 deployment guide appendix c: manually configuring sitescope for using a secure connection n the value of -storepass is a password used to protect the keystore file.
this password must be at least 6 characters long.
you need to use this password to import to and remove certificate data from the keystore file.
n the -alias variable is an alias or nickname you use to identify an entry in your keystore.
5. create a certificate request for this keystore by running the following command from the <sitescope root directory>\java\bin directory: keytool -certreq -alias youralias -file ..
\..
\groups\sis.csr -keystore ..
\..\groups\serverkeystore -storepass passphrase this command creates a file named sis.csr in the <sitescope root directory>\groups directory.
use this file to request a certificate from your certificate authority.
after you receive your certificate from a certificate authority (the reply message should include a file called cert.cer), you need to import this certificate into the keystore file you created using the steps above.
the file should be called serverkeystore.
use the following steps to import the certificate for use with sitescope.
6. import the certificate data into the keystore file by running the following command from the <sitescope root directory>\java\bin directory: keytool -import -trustcacerts -alias youralias -file cert.cer -keystore ..
\..\groups\serverkeystore note: to avoid keytool error: java.lang.exception: failed to establish chain from reply when importing the certificate from a certificate authority, you should import the root certificate (and any other intermediate certificate) from a certificate authority to <sitescope root directory>\java\lib\security\cacerts using certificate management from the user interface or by running the following command: keytool -import -alias yourca -file c:\cacertificate.cer -keystore ..\lib\security\cacerts -storepass changeit 7. to change sitescope to use a secure connection, you need to add or modify certain settings or configuration files in sitescope.
for details, see "manually configuring sitescope for tls on tomcat" on page 268.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 266 of 285 deployment guide appendix c: manually configuring sitescope for using a secure connection using a self-signed certificate alternatively, you can generate a self-signed certificate to configure sitescope using one of the following: l ssl tool.
for details, see "to use the ssl tool:" below.
l manual configuration.
use the -selfcert option to have the keytool utility generate a self- signed certificate.
for details, see "to manually generate a self-signed certificate:" below.
note: we recommend using the ssl tool in most cases.
however, you should use manual configuration if you are configuring sitescope to use ssl on a windows platform and do not have the %sitescope_home% variable (for example, sitescope has already been launched from another location using the go.bat command) or on a linux platform if you have sitescope installed not in /opt/hp/sitescope/ directory.
to use the ssl tool: 1. enter the following to stop the sitescope service: cd /opt/
hp/sitescope/
./stop
2. enter the following to run the ssl tool: cd /opt/
hp/sitescope/tools/ssl/ ./ssl_tool.sh
3. follow the instructions in the ssl tool.
to manually generate a self-signed certificate: 1. remove the serverkeystore file that is located in the <sitescope root directory>\groups directory.
you can delete it or simply move it to a different directory.
2. run the following command from the <sitescope root directory>\java\bin directory.
the values in italics are variables that you fill in with information specific to your organization.
keytool -genkey -dname "cn=www.yourdomain.com, ou=yourdepartment, o=yourcompanyname, l=yourlocation, st=yourstate, c=yourcountrycode" -alias youralias -keypass keypass -keystore ..
\..\groups\serverkeystore -storepass passphrase -keyalg "rsa" -validity valdays hp sitescope (11.31) page 267 of 285 deployment guide appendix c: manually configuring sitescope for using a secure connection note: n this command and all others you use must be entered on a single line.
the line is divided here to fit on this page.
n the serverkeystore string used when generating the certificates must be typed in the same case as specified in the documentation, otherwise it will fail when using sitescope failover with ssl. 3. run the following command, also from the <sitescope root directory>\java\bin directory:
keytool -selfcert -alias youralias -sigalg "md5withrsa" -keypass password - dname "cn=www.yourdomain.com, ou=yourdepartment, o=yourcompanyname, l=yourlocation, st=yourstate, c=yourcountrycode" -keystore ..
\..
\groups\serverkeystore 4. to change sitescope to use a secured connection, you need to add or modify certain settings or configuration files in sitescope.
for details, see "manually configuring sitescope for tls on tomcat" below.
5.
optionally, you can export the certificate for use in bsm by running the following command: keytool -exportcert -alias youralias -file <sitescope root directory>\certificate_name.cer -keystore ..
\..
\groups\serverkeystore when prompted, enter your keystore password.
manually configuring sitescope for tls on tomcat to enable tls on tomcat, you need to make changes to the configuration files used by the tomcat server.
1. open the server.xml file that is located in the <sitescope root directory>\tomcat\conf directory.
2. locate the section of the configuration file that looks like the following: <!-- define a ssl coyote http/1.1 connector on port 8443 --> <!--
connector port="8443" maxhttpheadersize="8192" maxthreads="150" minsparethreads="25" maxsparethreads="75" sslenabled="true" enablelookups="false" disableuploadtimeout="true" hp sitescope (11.31) page 268 of 285 deployment guide appendix c: manually configuring sitescope for using a secure connection acceptcount="100" scheme="https" secure="true" clientauth="false" sslprotocol="tls" compression="on" compressionminsize="2048" nocompressionuseragents="gozilla, traviata" compressablemimetype="text/html,text/xml,text/javascript,text/css,image/x- icon,application/json" /> -> 3.
change this section to the following: <!-- define a ssl coyote http/1.1 connector on port 8443 --
> <connector port="8443" maxthreads="150" minsparethreads="25" maxsparethreads="75" sslenabled="true" enablelookups="false" disableuploadtimeout="true" acceptcount="100" debug="0" scheme="https" secure="true" clientauth="false" sslenabledprotocols="tlsv1,tlsv1.1,sslv2hello" sslenabled="true" keystorefile="<sitescope_install_ path>\sitescope\groups\serverkeystore" keystorepass="testing" /> where <sitescope_install_path> is the path to your sitescope installation.
note: n if there are other hp products installed on the same server as sitescope, you might need to change port 8443 to another port to avoid conflict.
n tomcat log output is written to the <sitescope root directory>\logs\tomcat.log file.
settings for the log file can be configured from the <sitescope root directory>\tomcat\common\classes\log4j.properties file.
n you can strengthen security on the tomcat server by disabling weak ciphers.
to do so, open <sitescope root directory>\tomcat\conf\server.xml, and change the existing list to the following: <connector port="8443" protocol="http/1.1" sslenabled="true" maxthreads="150" scheme="https" secure="true"
clientauth="false" sslenabledprotocols="tlsv1,tlsv1.1,sslv2hello" ciphers="ssl_rsa_with_rc4_ 128_sha, tls_rsa_with_aes_128_cbc_sha, tls_dhe_rsa_with_aes_128_ cbc_sha, tls_dhe_dss_with_aes_128_cbc_sha, ssl_rsa_with_3des_ ede_cbc_sha, ssl_dhe_rsa_with_3des_ede_cbc_sha, ssl_dhe_dss_
with_3des_ede_cbc_sha"/>] hp sitescope (11.31) page 269 of 285 deployment guide appendix c: manually configuring sitescope for using a secure connection by default, tomcat looks for a .keystore file in the sitescope user's home directory.
for more information on enabling tls for the tomcat server, see http://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-5.5-doc/ssl-howto.html.
4. after enabling tomcat to use tls using this example, the sitescope interface is available at a url with the following syntax: https://<sitescope_server>:8443/sitescope (the link is case sensitive) manually configuring sitescope for mutual tls configuration perform the following steps if the sitescope server requires a client certificate from the client.
1. sitescope should be configured with tls for details, see "manually configuring sitescope for tls on tomcat" on page 268.
2. configure the tomcat server to request a client certificate by locating the following section of the <sitescope root directory>\tomcat\conf\server.xml configuration file: <connector port="8443" maxthreads="150" minsparethreads="25" maxsparethreads="75" sslenabled="true" enablelookups="false" disableuploadtimeout="true" acceptcount="100" debug="0" scheme="https" secure="true" sslenabledprotocols="tlsv1,tlsv1.1,sslv2hello" keystorefile="..\groups\serverkeystore" keystorepass="changeit" and adding the following attributes, and changing clientauth="true": truststorefile="..\java\lib\security\cacerts" truststorepass="changeit" truststoretype="jks" clientauth="true" /> 3.
import the root certificate of the certificate authority that issues client certificates to your organization to the sitescope truststore (<sitescope root directory>\java\lib\security\cacerts) by running the command: c:\sitescope\java\>keytool -import -trustcacerts -alias <your alias> -keystore ..
\lib\security\ cacerts -file <certificate file> hp sitescope (11.31) page 270 of 285 deployment guide appendix c: manually configuring sitescope for using a secure connection 4. create a client certificate, or use an existing one to import it to the browser.
5. restart sitescope, and access it using the following link: https://<server>:8443/sitescope (the link is case sensitive) note: calls to the sitescope soap api also require a certificate.
add the following to your java code to respond with a client certificate: system.setproperty("javax.net.ssl.keystore",<pathname to client certificate keystore in jks format>); system.setproperty("javax.net.ssl.keystorepassword", <password of client certificate keystore>); (optional) system.setproperty("javax.net.ssl.truststore", <pathname to truststore in jks format>); or use the following jvm arguments: -djavax.net.ssl.keystore=<pathname to client certificate keystore in jks format> -djavax.net.ssl.keystorepassword=<password of client certificate keystore> (optional) -djavax.net.ssl.truststore=<pathname to truststore in jks format> manually configuring sitescope to connect to bsm server with tls deployment to connect sitescope to a bsm server with an tls deployment, perform the following: 1. connect to the sitescope server.
2. 3. import the ca root certificate or bsm server certificate into sitescope using certificate management in the sitescope user interface.
for details, see the certificate management section in the using sitescope guide in the sitescope help.
if bsm is configured with a load balancer, import the certificates of load balance core and center urls into sitescope using certificate management in the sitescope user interface.
for details, see the certificate management section in the using sitescope guide in the sitescope help.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 271 of 285 deployment guide appendix c: manually configuring sitescope for using a secure connection 4.
for details on how to import the certificate into bsm, see the using ssl with sitescope section in the bsm hardening guide in the bsm documentation library.
manually configuring sitescope to connect to a bsm server that requires a client certificate to connect sitescope to a bsm server that requires a client certificate, perform the following: 1. connect to the sitescope server.
2. import the ca root certificate or bsm server certificate into sitescope using certificate management in the sitescope user interface.
for details, see the certificate management section in the using sitescope guide in the sitescope help.
3. if you obtained the client certificate in jks format, copy it to the <sitescope root directory>\templates.certificates folder, and continue from step 11.
note: n make sure that the private key password is at least 6 characters long, and that the private key and keystore passwords are the same.
n in addition, make sure that the above keystore contains the ca certificate that issued it.
if you obtained the client certificate in some other format, perform the steps below.
4. create a keystore under <sitescope root directory>/templates.certificates by running the following command from the <sitescope root directory>\java\bin directory: keytool -genkey -keyalg rsa -alias sis -keystore <sitescope root directory>\templates.certificates\.ks -storepass
<your_keystore_password> example: keytool -genkey -keyalg rsa -alias sis -keystore c:\sitescope\templates.certificates\.ks -storepass changeit what is your first and last name?
[unknown]: domain.name what is the name of your organizational unit?
hp sitescope (11.31) page 272 of 285 deployment guide appendix c: manually configuring sitescope for using a secure connection new york
[unknown]: dept what is the name of your organization?
[unknown]: xyz ltd
what is the name of your city or locality?
[unknown]: what is the name of your state or province?
[unknown]: what is the two-letter country code for this unit?
[unknown]: is cn=domain.name, ou=dept, o=xyz ltd, l=new york, st=usa, c=us correct?
[no]: yes usa us enter key password for <sitescope> press enter to use the same password as the keystore password.
5. create a certificate request for this keystore by running the following command from the <sitescope root directory>\java\bin directory: keytool -certreq -alias sis -file c:\sis.csr -keystore <sitescope root directory>\templates.certificates\.ks -storepass
<your_keystore_password> example: keytool -certreq -alias sis -file c:\sis.csr -keystore c:\sitescope\templates.certificates\.ks -storepass changeit 6.
have your certificate authority sign the certificate request.
copy/paste the contents of the .csr file into your certificate authority web form.
7. download the signed client certificate in base-64 format to <sitescope root directory>\templates.certificates\clientcert.cer.
8. download the certificate authority certificate in base-64 format to c:\. 9.
import the certificate authority certificate into the jks keystore by running the following command: keytool -import -alias ca -file c:\ca.cer -keystore
<
sitescope root directory>\templates.certificates\.ks -storepass
<your_keystore_password> example: hp sitescope (11.31) page 273 of 285 deployment guide appendix c: manually configuring sitescope for using a secure connection keytool -import -alias ca -file c:\ca.cer -keystore c:\sitescope\templates.certificates\.ks -storepass changeit owner:
cn=dept-ca, dc=domain.name issuer: cn=dept-ca, dc=domain.name serial number: 2c2721eb293d60b4424fe82e37794d2c valid from: tue jun 17 11:49:31 idt 2008 until: mon jun 17 11:57:06 idt 2013 certificate fingerprints: md5: sha1: 17:2f:4e:76:83:5f:03:bb:a4:b9:96:d4:80:e3:08:94:8c:d5:4a:d5 yes trust this certificate?
[no]: certificate was added to keystore 14:59:8f:47:00:e8:10:93:23:1c:c6:22:6f:a6:6c:5b 10.
import the client certificate into the keystore by running the following command: keytool -import -alias sis -file <sitescope root directory>\templates.certificates\certnew.cer -keystore <sitescope root directory>\templates.certificates\.ks -storepass <your_keystore_password> example: keytool -import -alias sis -fil c:\sitescope\templates.certificates\certnew.cer -keystore c:\sitescope\templates.certificates\.ks -storepass changeit the certificate reply is installed in the keystore <sitescope root directory>\java\bin directory.
11. check the keystore contents by running the following command from the <sitescope root directory>\java\bin directory, and enter the keystore password: keytool -list -keystore <sitescope root directory>\templates.certificates\.ks example: keytool -list -keystore c:\sitescope\templates.certificates\.ks enter keystore password: changeit keystore type: jks keystore provider: sun your keystore contains 2 entries ca, mar 8, 2009, trustedcertentry, certificate fingerprint (md5): 14:59:8f:47:00:e8:10:93:23:1c:c6:22:6f:a6:6c:5b sis, mar 8, 2009, keyentry, hp sitescope (11.31) page 274 of 285 deployment guide appendix c: manually configuring sitescope for using a secure connection certificate fingerprint (md5): c7:70:8b:3c:2d:a9:48:eb:24:8a:46:77:b0:a3:42:e1 c:\sitescope\java\bin> 12.
to use this keystore for client certificate, add the following lines to the <sitescope root directory>\groups\master.config file: _urlclientcert=<keystorename> _urlclientcertpassword=<keystorepassword> example: _urlclientcert=.ks _urlclientcertpassword=changeit 13.
save the changes to the file.
14.
in sitescope preferences > integration preferences > bsm preferences available operations, click reset to delete all bsm related settings from the sitescope server and all sitescope configurations from bsm.
15. restart the sitescope server.
16.
in bsm, select admin > system availability management administration, and click the new sitescope button to add the sitescope instance.
note: if the connection between sitescope and bsm fails, check the <sitescope root directory>\log\bac_integration.log for errors.
manually configuring the topology discovery agent in sitescope when bsm server requires a client certificate after configuring sitescope to connect to the bsm gateway server using a client certificate (see "manually configuring sitescope to connect to a bsm server that requires a client certificate" on page 272), you need to perform the following steps for discovery to report topology to the bsm server.
1. create a folder named security in <sitescope root directory>\web-inf\classes (if it does not exist).
hp sitescope (11.31) page 275 of 285 deployment guide appendix c: manually configuring sitescope for using a secure connection 2. move mamtruststoreexp.jks and ssl.properties from <sitescope root directory>\web- inf\classes to the <sitescope root directory>\web-inf\classes\security folder.
3. import the ca root certificate (or bsm server certificate) into the discovery trust store (mamtruststoreexp.jks) with password (the default password for the discovery trust store is logomania, which encrypted, is: [22,-8,116,-119,-107,64,49,93,-69,57,-13,-123,-32,-114,-88,- 61]): keytool -import -alias <your_ca> -keystore <sitescope root directory>\web- inf\classes\security\mamtruststoreexp.jks -storepass <your_keystore_password> example: keytool -import -alias amqa_ca -file c:\ca.cer -keystore c:\sitescope\web-
inf\classes\security\mamtruststoreexp.jks -storepass logomania note: the private key password must be at least 6 characters, and the password for the private key and password for the keystore must be the same.
4. check the contents of truststore using the following command: <sitescope root directory>\java\bin>keytool -list -keystore <sitescope root directory>\web-inf\classes\security\mamtruststoreexp.jks -storepass <your_ keystore_password> keystore type: <keystore_type> keystore provider: <keystore_provider> your keystore contains 2 entries mam, nov 4, 2004, trustedcertentry,certificate fingerprint (md5): <certificate_fingerprint> amqa_ca, dec 30, 2010, trustedcertentry,certificate fingerprint (md5): <certificate_fingerprint> example: c:\sitescope\java\bin>keytool -list -keystore c:\sitescope\web-
inf\classes\security\mamtruststoreexp.jks -storepass logomania keystore type: jks keystore provider: sun your keystore contains 2 entries mam, nov 4, 2004,trustedcertentry, certificate fingerprint (md5): hp sitescope (11.31) page 276 of 285 deployment guide appendix c: manually configuring sitescope for using a secure connection c6:78:0f:58:32:04:df:87:5c:8c:60:bc:58:75:6e:f7 amqa_ca, dec 30, 2010, trustedcertentry, certificate fingerprint (md5): 5d:47:4b:52:14:66:9a:6a:0a:90:8f:6d:7a:94:76:ab 5.
copy the sitescope client keystore (.ks) from <sitescope root directory>\templates.certificates to <sitescope root directory>sitescope\web- inf\classes\security\. 6.
in the ssl.properties file, update the javax.net.ssl.keystore property to the keystore name.
for example, javax.net.ssl.keystore=.ks. 7. change the sitescope client keystore password to match the discovery password for keystore (default is logomania).
keytool -storepasswd -new
<discovery_keystore_password> -keystore <sitescope root directory>\web-inf\classes\security\.ks -storepass <your_keystore_password> example: keytool -storepasswd -new logomania -keystore c:\sitescope\web- inf\classes\security\.ks -storepass changeit 8.
change private key password to match discovery password for keystore: keytool -keypasswd -alias sis -keypass <your_keystore_password> -new
<discovery_keystore_password> -keystore <sitescope root directory>\web- inf\classes\security\.ks -storepass <your_keystore_password> example: keytool -keypasswd -alias sis -keypass changeit -new logomania -keystore c:\sitescope\web-inf\classes\security\.ks -storepass logomania 9.
verify keystore using new password: keytool -list -v
-keystore <sitescope root directory>\web- inf\classes\security\.ks -storepass <your_keystore_password> example: keytool -list -v
-keystore c:\sitescope\web-inf\classes\security\.ks - storepass logomania hp sitescope (11.31) page 277 of 285 deployment guide appendix c: manually configuring sitescope for using a secure connection 10.
restart the sitescope server.
11.
in bsm, select admin > system availability management administration, and click the new sitescope button to add the sitescope instance.
in the profile settings pane, make sure to select the bsm front end use https check box.
12.
check the topology appears in bsm > admin > rtsm administration > it universe manager > system monitors view.
troubleshooting l check the bac-integration.log located in <sitescope root directory>\logs\bac_integration\ for the following errors: 2010-12-30 11:03:06,399
[topologyreportersender] (topologyreportersender.java:364) error - failed to run main topology agent.
topologycommand=topologycommand {commandtype=run_script, … java.lang.illegalargumentexception: cannot find script with name=create_ monitor.py at com.mercury.sitescope.integrations.bac.topology.dependencies.dependenciescraw ler. finddependencies(dependenciescrawler.java:60) at com.mercury.sitescope.integrations.bac.topology.dependencies. scriptdependenciesfinder.find(scriptdependenciesfinder.java:80) at com.mercury.sitescope.integrations.bac.topology.topologyreportersender.
getdependencies(topologyreportersender.java:552) at com.mercury.sitescope.integrations.bac.topology.topologyreportersender.
send(topologyreportersender.java:347) at com.mercury.sitescope.integrations.bac.topology.topologyreportersender.
run(topologyreportersender.java:304) at java.lang.thread.run(thread.java:619) l verify that the certificate and keystore passwords are identical.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 278 of 285 appendix d: accessing sitescope reports and classic user interface using https you can setup the sitescope web server to use an ssl connection with access via the https protocol.
the steps you need to take to do this are described in this section.
this section describes: "about working with certificates in sitescope" below "using a certificate from a certificate authority" below "using a self-signed certificate" on page 282 l l l about working with certificates in sitescope sitescope is shipped with keytool.exe.
keytool is a key and certificate management utility.
it enables users to administer their own public/private key pairs and associated certificates for authentication using digital signatures.
it also allows users to cache the public keys of the parties they communicate with.
this is installed in <sitescope install path>\sitescope\java\bin directory.
note: the process for creating, requesting, and installing a digital certificate requires close attention to detail.
be sure to make a note of the parameters and command line arguments that you use in each step of the process as it is very important that you use the same values though out the procedure.
you can find out more about keytool at the oracle microsystems web site: http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/tools/windows/keytool.html using a certificate from a certificate authority you use the following steps to use a digital certificate issued by a certificate authority.
in order to use this option, you need a digital certificate that can be imported into the key storage file used by keytool.
if your organization does not currently have a digital certificate for this purpose, you will need to make a request to a certificate authority to issue you a certificate.
to use a certificate from a certificate authority: hp sitescope (11.31) page 279 of 285 deployment guide appendix d: accessing sitescope reports and classic user interface using https 1.
remove the serverkeystore file that is located in the <sitescope root>\groups directory.
you can delete it or simply move it to a different directory.
note: this file must be removed before performing the steps listed below.
2.
next, you must create a key pair.
to do this, you need to run the command line listed below from the <sitescope root>\java\bin directory.
note: values in italics are variables that you fill in with information specific to your organization.
this command and all others you use must be entered on a single line.
the line is divided here to fit on this page.
keytool -genkey -dname "cn=www.yourdomain.com, ou=yourdepartment, o=yourcompanyname, l=yourlocation, s=yourstate, c=yourcountrycode" -alias youralias -keypass keypass -keystore ..
\..\groups\serverkeystore -storepass passphrase -keyalg "rsa" -validity valdays this command will create a file called serverkeystore in the sitescope\groups directory.
sitescope uses this keystore file to store the certificates used in your secure sessions.
make sure you keep a backup copy of this file in another location.
the value of a -dname option must be in the following order where the italicized values are replaced by values of your choosing.
the keywords are abbreviations for the following: cn = commonname - common name of a person (for example, "warren pease") ou = organizationunit - small organizational unit (for example, "netadmin")
o = organizationname - large organization name (for example, "acme-systems, inc.")
l = localityname - locality (city) name (for example, "palo alto") s = statename - state or province name (for example, "california")
c = country - two-letter country code (for example, "us") n the subcomponents within the -dname (distinguished name string) variable are case- insensitive and they are order-sensitive, although you do not have to include all of the hp sitescope (11.31) page 280 of 285 deployment guide appendix d: accessing sitescope reports and classic user interface using https subcomponents.
the -dname variable should represent your company and the cn is the domain name of the web server on which sitescope is installed.
n the value of -storepass is a password used to protect the keystore file.
this password must be at least 6 characters long.
you will need to use this password to import to and remove certificate data from the keystore file.
n the -alias variable is an alias or nickname you use to identify an entry in your keystore.
3. create a certificate request file.
to do this, run the following command also from the <sitescope root>\java\bin directory: keytool -certreq -alias youralias -file ..
\..
\groups\filename.csr -keypass keypass -keystore ..
\..\groups\serverkeystore -storepass passphrase -keyalg "rsa" this command will generate a .csr to be used as a request file.
you need to send this file to a certificate authority (ca) along with your request for a certificate.
after you receive your certificate from a certificate authority (the reply should include a file called cert.cer), you need to import this certificate into the keystore file you created in the steps above.
the file should be called serverkeystore.
use the following steps to import the certificate.
4. to import the certificate data into the keystore file, run the following command also from the sitescope\java\bin directory: keytool -import -trustcacerts -alias youralias -file cert.cer -keystore ..
\..
\groups\serverkeystore 5. to change sitescope to use a secured connection, you need to add or modify the following parameters in the <sitescope root>\groups\master.config file: _
httpsecureport=8899 the number you use for the _httpsecureport parameter can be set to any available port number.
it is recommended that you use a port number other than 8888, which is the default port for the accessing sitescope using http (unsecured).
in order to access sitescope using https exclusively, you will need to modify the following parameters in the master.config file as shown below, substituting the applicable values for those items in italics: _httpport= hp sitescope (11.31) page 281 of 285 deployment guide appendix d: accessing sitescope reports and classic user interface using https _httpsecureport=8899 _httpsecurekeypassword
=passphrase _httpsecurekeystorepassword=keypass note: all the parameters in the master.config file are case and syntax sensitive.
be sure not to add any extra spaces or lines to the file.
6. save the changes to the master.config file.
7. stop and restart the sitescope service for the changes to become effective.
you should now be able to access sitescope using http, for example, for access from inside the firewall, at the default address of: http://server_ip_address:8888 you should also be able to access sitescope using https at the following address, based on steps in the example above: https://server_ip_address:8899 using a self-signed certificate alternatively, you also can generate a self signed certificate.
to do this, you use the -selfcert option to have the keytool utility generate a self-signed certificate.
to use a self-signed certificate: 1. remove the serverkeystore file that is located in the <sitescope root>\groups directory.
you can delete it or simply move it to a different directory.
note: this file must be removed before performing the steps listed below.
2.
next, run the following command from the <sitescope root>\java\bin directory.
note: values in italics are variables that you fill in with information specific to your hp sitescope (11.31) page 282 of 285 deployment guide appendix d: accessing sitescope reports and classic user interface using https organization this command and all others you use must be entered on a single line.
the line is divided here to fit on this page.
keytool -genkey -dname "cn=www.yourdomain.com, ou=yourdepartment, o=yourcompanyname, l=yourlocation, s=yourstate, c=yourcountrycode" -alias youralias -keypass keypass -keystore ..
\..\groups\serverkeystore -storepass passphrase -keyalg "rsa" -validity valdays 3.
next run the following command, also from the sitescope\java\bin directory:
keytool -selfcert -alias youralias -sigalg "md5withrsa" -keypass password - dname "cn=www.yourdomain.com, ou=yourdepartment, o=yourcompanyname, l=yourlocation, s=yourstate, c=yourcountrycode" -keystore ..
\..
\groups\serverkeystore 4. to change sitescope to use a secured connection, you need to add or modify the following parameters in the <sitescope root>\groups\master.config file: _
httpsecureport=8899 the number you use for the _httpsecureport parameter can be set to any available port number.
it is recommended that you use a port number other than 8888, which is the default port for the accessing sitescope using http (unsecured).
in order to access sitescope using https exclusively, you will need to modify the following parameters in the master.config file as shown below, substituting the applicable values for those items in italics.:
_httpport= _httpsecureport=8899 _httpsecurekeypassword=passphrase _httpsecurekeystorepassword=keypass note: all the parameters in the master.config file are case and syntax sensitive.
be sure not to add any extra spaces or lines to the file.
5. save the changes to the master.config file.
hp sitescope (11.31) page 283 of 285 deployment guide appendix d: accessing sitescope reports and classic user interface using https 6. stop and restart the sitescope service for the changes to become effective.
you should now be able to access sitescope using http for example, for access from inside the firewall, at the default address of: http://server_ip_address:8888 you should also be able to access sitescope using https at the following address, based on steps in the example above: https://server_ip_address:8899 hp sitescope (11.31) page 284 of 285 send documentation feedback if you have comments about this document, you can contact the documentation team by email.
if an email client is configured on this system, click the link above and an email window opens with the following information in the subject line: feedback on deployment guide (sitescope 11.31) just add your feedback to the email and click send.
if no email client is available, copy the information above to a new message in a web mail client, and send your feedback to sw-doc@hpe.com.
we appreciate your feedback!
hp sitescope (11.31) page 285 of 285